{"Title": "UniGen: Universal Domain Generalization for Sentiment Classification via Zero-shot Dataset Generation", "Abstract": "Although pre-trained language models have exhibited great flexibility and versatility with prompt-based few-shot learning, they suffer from the extensive parameter size and limited applicability for inference. Recent studies have suggested that PLMs be used as dataset generators and a tiny task-specific model be trained to achieve efficient inference. However, their applicability to various domains is limited because they tend to generate domain-specific datasets. In this work, we propose a novel approach to universal domain generalization that generates a dataset regardless of the target domain. This allows for generalization of the tiny task model to any domain that shares the label space, thus enhancing the real-world applicability of the dataset generation paradigm. Our experiments indicate that the proposed method accomplishes generalizability across various domains while using a parameter set that is orders of magnitude smaller than PLMs."}
{"Title": "Multi-News+: Cost-efficient Dataset Cleansing via LLM-based Data Annotation", "Abstract": "The quality of the dataset is crucial for ensuring optimal performance and reliability of downstream task models. However, datasets often contain noisy data inadvertently included during the construction process. Numerous attempts have been made to correct this issue through human annotators. However, hiring and managing human annotators is expensive and time-consuming. As an alternative, recent studies are exploring the use of large language models (LLMs) for data annotation.In this study, we present a case study that extends the application of LLM-based data annotation to enhance the quality of existing datasets through a cleansing strategy. Specifically, we leverage approaches such as chain-of-thought and majority voting to imitate human annotation and classify unrelated documents from the Multi-News dataset, which is widely used for the multi-document summarization task. Through our proposed cleansing method, we introduce an enhanced Multi-News+. By employing LLMs for data cleansing, we demonstrate an efficient and effective approach to improving dataset quality without relying on expensive human annotation efforts."}
{"Title": "FIZZ: Factual Inconsistency Detection by Zoom-in Summary and Zoom-out Document", "Abstract": "Through the advent of pre-trained language models, there have been notable advancements in abstractive summarization systems. Simultaneously, a considerable number of novel methods for evaluating factual consistency in abstractive summarization systems has been developed. But these evaluation approaches incorporate substantial limitations, especially on refinement and interpretability. In this work, we propose highly effective and interpretable factual inconsistency detection method FIZZ (Factual Inconsistency Detection by Zoom-in Summary and Zoom-out Document) for abstractive summarization systems that is based on fine-grained atomic facts decomposition. Moreover, we align atomic facts decomposed from the summary with the source document through adaptive granularity expansion. These atomic facts represent a more fine-grained unit of information, facilitating detailed understanding and interpretability of the summary{'}s factual inconsistency. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed factual consistency checking system significantly outperforms existing systems. We release the code at https://github.com/plm3332/FIZZ."}
{"Title": "Prompts have evil twins", "Abstract": "We discover that many natural-language prompts can be replaced by corresponding prompts that are unintelligible to humans but that provably elicit similar behavior in language models. We call these prompts {``}evil twins{''} because they are obfuscated and uninterpretable (evil), but at the same time mimic the functionality of the original natural-language prompts (twins). Remarkably, evil twins transfer between models. We find these prompts by solving a maximum-likelihood problem which has applications of independent interest."}
{"Title": "Table Question Answering for Low-resourced Indic Languages", "Abstract": "TableQA is the task of answering questions over tables of structured information, returning individual cells or tables as output. TableQA research has focused primarily on high-resource languages, leaving medium- and low-resource languages with little progress due to scarcity of annotated data and neural models. We address this gap by introducing a fully automatic large-scale tableQA data generation process for low-resource languages with limited budget. We incorporate our data generation method on two Indic languages, Bengali and Hindi, which have no tableQA datasets or models. TableQA models trained on our large-scale datasets outperform state-of-the-art LLMs. We further study the trained models on different aspects, including mathematical reasoning capabilities and zero-shot cross-lingual transfer. Our work is the first on low-resource tableQA focusing on scalable data generation and evaluation procedures. Our proposed data generation method can be applied to any low-resource language with a web presence. We release datasets, models, and code (https://github.com/kolk/Low-Resource-TableQA-Indic-languages)."}
{"Title": "ImageInWords: Unlocking Hyper-Detailed Image Descriptions", "Abstract": "Despite the longstanding adage {''}an image is worth a thousand words,{''} generating accurate hyper-detailed image descriptions remains unsolved. Trained on short web-scraped image-text, vision-language models often generate incomplete descriptions with visual inconsistencies. We address this via a novel data-centric approach with ImageInWords (IIW), a carefully designed human-in-the-loop framework for curating hyper-detailed image descriptions. Human evaluations on IIW data show major gains compared to recent datasets (+66{\\%}) and GPT-4V (+48{\\%}) across comprehensiveness, specificity, hallucinations, and more. We also show that fine-tuning with IIW data improves these metrics by +31{\\%} against models trained with prior work, even with only 9k samples. Lastly, we evaluate IIW models with text-to-image generation and vision-language reasoning tasks. Our generated descriptions result in the highest fidelity images, and boost compositional reasoning by up to 6{\\%} on ARO, SVO-Probes, and Winoground datasets. We release the IIW-Eval benchmark with human judgement labels, object and image-level annotations from our framework, and existing image caption datasets enriched via IIW-model."}
{"Title": "LLM-Based Agent Society Investigation: Collaboration and Confrontation in Avalon Gameplay", "Abstract": "This paper explores the open research problem of understanding the social behaviors of LLM-based agents. Using Avalon as a testbed, we employ system prompts to guide LLM agents in gameplay. While previous studies have touched on gameplay with LLM agents, research on their social behaviors is lacking. We propose a novel framework, tailored for Avalon, features a multi-agent system facilitating efficient communication and interaction. We evaluate its performance based on game success and analyze LLM agents{'} social behaviors. Results affirm the framework{'}s effectiveness in creating adaptive agents and suggest LLM-based agents{'} potential in navigating dynamic social interactions. By examining collaboration and confrontation behaviors, we offer insights into this field{'}s research and applications."}
{"Title": "When LLMs Meets Acoustic Landmarks: An Efficient Approach to Integrate Speech into Large Language Models for Depression Detection", "Abstract": "Depression is a critical concern in global mental health, prompting extensive research into AI-based detection methods. Among various AI technologies, Large Language Models (LLMs) stand out for their versatility in healthcare applications. However, the application of LLMs in the identification and analysis of depressive states remains relatively unexplored, presenting an intriguing avenue for future research. In this paper, we present an innovative approach to employ an LLM in the realm of depression detection, integrating acoustic speech information into the LLM framework for this specific application. We investigate an efficient method for automatic depression detection by integrating speech signals into LLMs utilizing Acoustic Landmarks. This approach is not only valuable for the detection of depression but also represents a new perspective in enhancing the ability of LLMs to comprehend and process speech signals. By incorporating acoustic landmarks, which are specific to the pronunciation of spoken words, our method adds critical dimensions to text transcripts. This integration also provides insights into the unique speech patterns of individuals, revealing the potential mental states of individuals. By encoding acoustic landmarks information into LLMs, evaluations of the proposed approach on the DAIC-WOZ dataset reveal state-of-the-art results when compared with existing Audio-Text baselines."}
{"Title": "Speaking in Wavelet Domain: A Simple and Efficient Approach to Speed up Speech Diffusion Model", "Abstract": "Recently, Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPMs) have attained leading performances across a diverse range of generative tasks. However, in the field of speech synthesis, although DDPMs exhibit impressive performance, their prolonged training duration and substantial inference costs hinder practical deployment. Existing approaches primarily focus on enhancing inference speed, while approaches to accelerate training{---}a key factor in the costs associated with adding or customizing voices{---}often necessitate complex modifications to the model, compromising their universal applicability. To address the aforementioned challenges, we propose an inquiry: is it possible to enhance the training/inference speed and performance of DDPMs by modifying the speech signal itself? In this paper, we double the training and inference speed of Speech DDPMs by simply redirecting the generative target to the wavelet domain. This method not only achieves comparable or superior performance to the original model in speech synthesis tasks but also demonstrates its versatility. By investigating and utilizing different wavelet bases, our approach proves effective not just in speech synthesis, but also in speech enhancement."}
{"Title": "Hateful Word in Context Classification", "Abstract": "Hate speech detection is a prevalent research field, yet it remains underexplored at the level of word meaning. This is significant, as terms used to convey hate often involve non-standard or novel usages which might be overlooked by commonly leveraged LMs trained on general language use. In this paper, we introduce the Hateful Word in Context Classification (\\textbf{HateWiC}) task and present a dataset of {\\textasciitilde}4000 WiC-instances, each labeled by three annotators. Our analyses and computational exploration focus on the interplay between the subjective nature (context-dependent connotations) and the descriptive nature (as described in dictionary definitions) of hateful word senses. HateWiC annotations confirm that hatefulness of a word in context does not always derive from the sense definition alone. We explore the prediction of both majority and individual annotator labels, and we experiment with modeling context- and sense-based inputs. Our findings indicate that including definitions proves effective overall, yet not in cases where hateful connotations vary. Conversely, including annotator demographics becomes more important for mitigating performance drop in subjective hate prediction."}
{"Title": "Eyes Don't Lie: Subjective Hate Annotation and Detection with Gaze", "Abstract": "Hate speech is a complex and subjective phenomenon. In this paper, we present a dataset (GAZE4HATE) that provides gaze data collected in a hate speech annotation experiment. We study whether the gaze of an annotator provides predictors of their subjective hatefulness rating, and how gaze features can improve Hate Speech Detection (HSD). We conduct experiments on statistical modeling of subjective hate ratings and gaze and analyze to what extent rationales derived from hate speech models correspond to human gaze and explanations in our data. Finally, we introduce MEANION, a first gaze-integrated HSD model. Our experiments show that particular gaze features like dwell time or fixation counts systematically correlate with annotators{'} subjective hate ratings and improve predictions of text-only hate speech models."}
{"Title": "NumeroLogic: Number Encoding for Enhanced LLMs' Numerical Reasoning", "Abstract": "Language models struggle with handling numerical data and performing arithmetic operations. We hypothesize that this limitation can be partially attributed to non-intuitive textual numbers representation. When a digit is read or generated by a causal language model it does not know its place value (e.g. thousands vs. hundreds) until the entire number is processed. To address this issue, we propose a simple adjustment to how numbers are represented by including the count of digits before each number. For instance, instead of {``}42{''}, we suggest using {``}2:42{''} as the new format. This approach, which we term NumeroLogic, offers an added advantage in number generation by serving as a Chain of Thought (CoT). By requiring the model to consider the number of digits first, it enhances the reasoning process before generating the actual number. We use arithmetic tasks to demonstrate the effectiveness of the NumeroLogic formatting. We further demonstrate NumeroLogic applicability to general natural language modeling, improving language understanding performance in the MMLU benchmark."}
{"Title": "\u201cThinking\u201d Fair and Slow: On the Efficacy of Structured Prompts for Debiasing Language Models", "Abstract": "Existing debiasing techniques are typically training-based or require access to the model{'}s internals and output distributions, so they are inaccessible to end-users looking to adapt LLM outputs for their particular needs. In this study, we examine whether structured prompting techniques can offer opportunities for fair text generation. We evaluate a comprehensive end-user-focused iterative framework of debiasing that applies System 2 thinking processes for prompts to induce logical, reflective, and critical text generation, with single, multi-step, instruction, and role-based variants. By systematically evaluating many LLMs across many datasets and different prompting strategies, we show that the more complex System 2-based Implicative Prompts significantly improve over other techniques demonstrating lower mean bias in the outputs with competitive performance on the downstream tasks. Our work offers research directions for the design and the potential of end-user-focused evaluative frameworks for LLM use."}
{"Title": "A Usage-centric Take on Intent Understanding in E-Commerce", "Abstract": "Identifying and understanding user intents is a pivotal task for E-Commerce. Despite its essential role in product recommendation and business user profiling analysis, intent understanding has not been consistently defined or accurately benchmarked. In this paper, we focus on predicative user intents as {``}how a customer uses a product{''}, and pose intent understanding as a natural language reasoning task, independent of product ontologies. We identify two weaknesses of FolkScope, the SOTA E-Commerce Intent Knowledge Graph: category-rigidity and property-ambiguity. They limit its ability to strongly align user intents with products having the most desirable property, and to recommend useful products across diverse categories. Following these observations, we introduce a Product Recovery Benchmark featuring a novel evaluation framework and an example dataset. We further validate the above FolkScope weaknesses on this benchmark. Our code and dataset are available at https://github.com/stayones/Usgae-Centric-Intent-Understanding."}
{"Title": "Fine-Tuning or Retrieval? Comparing Knowledge Injection in LLMs", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) encapsulate a vast amount of factual information within their pre-trained weights, as evidenced by their ability to answer diverse questions across different domains. However, this knowledge is inherently limited, relying heavily on the characteristics of the training data. Consequently, using external datasets to incorporate new information or refine the capabilities of LLMs on previously seen information poses a significant challenge. In this study, we compare two common approaches: unsupervised fine-tuning and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG). We evaluate both approaches on a variety of knowledge-intensive tasks across different topics. Our findings reveal that while unsupervised fine-tuning offers some improvement, RAG consistently outperforms it, both for existing knowledge encountered during training and entirely new knowledge. Moreover, we find that LLMs struggle to learn new factual information through unsupervised fine-tuning, and that exposing them to numerous variations of the same fact during training could alleviate this problem."}
{"Title": "Systematic Biases in LLM Simulations of Debates", "Abstract": "The emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs), has opened exciting possibilities for constructing computational simulations designed to replicate human behavior accurately. Current research suggests that LLM-based agents become increasingly human-like in their performance, sparking interest in using these AI agents as substitutes for human participants in behavioral studies. However, LLMs are complex statistical learners without straightforward deductive rules, making them prone to unexpected behaviors. Hence, it is crucial to study and pinpoint the key behavioral distinctions between humans and LLM-based agents. In this study, we highlight the limitations of LLMs in simulating human interactions, particularly focusing on LLMs{'} ability to simulate political debates on topics that are important aspects of people{'}s day-to-day lives and decision-making processes. Our findings indicate a tendency for LLM agents to conform to the model{'}s inherent social biases despite being directed to debate from certain political perspectives. This tendency results in behavioral patterns that seem to deviate from well-established social dynamics among humans. We reinforce these observations using an automatic self-fine-tuning method, which enables us to manipulate the biases within the LLM and demonstrate that agents subsequently align with the altered biases. These results underscore the need for further research to develop methods that help agents overcome these biases, a critical step toward creating more realistic simulations."}
{"Title": "Studying and Mitigating Biases in Sign Language Understanding Models", "Abstract": "Ensuring that the benefits of sign language technologies are distributed equitably among all community members is crucial. Thus, it is important to address potential biases and inequities that may arise from the design or use of these resources. Crowd-sourced sign language datasets, such as the ASL Citizen dataset, are great resources for improving accessibility and preserving linguistic diversity, but they must be used thoughtfully to avoid reinforcing existing biases.In this work, we utilize the rich information about participant demographics and lexical features present in the ASL Citizen dataset to study and document the biases that may result from models trained on crowd-sourced sign datasets. Further, we apply several bias mitigation techniques during model training, and find that these techniques reduce performance disparities without decreasing accuracy. With the publication of this work, we release the demographic information about the participants in the ASL Citizen dataset to encourage future bias mitigation work in this space."}
{"Title": "Uncertainty in Language Models: Assessment through Rank-Calibration", "Abstract": "Language Models (LMs) have shown promising performance in natural language generation. However, as LMs often generate incorrect or hallucinated responses, it is crucial to correctly quantify their uncertainty in responding to given inputs. In addition to verbalized confidence elicited via prompting, many uncertainty measures (e.g., semantic entropy and affinity-graph-based measures) have been proposed. However, these measures can differ greatly, and it is unclear how to compare them, partly because they take values over different ranges (e.g., $[0,\\infty)$ or $[0,1]$). In this work, we address this issue by developing a novel and practical framework, termed *Rank-Calibration*, to assess uncertainty and confidence measures for LMs. Our key tenet is that higher uncertainty (or lower confidence) should imply lower generation quality, on average. Rank-calibration quantifies deviations from this ideal relationship in a principled manner, without requiring ad hoc binary thresholding of the correctness score (e.g., ROUGE or METEOR). The broad applicability and the granular interpretability of our methods are demonstrated empirically."}
{"Title": "RoTBench: A Multi-Level Benchmark for Evaluating the Robustness of Large Language Models in Tool Learning", "Abstract": "Tool learning has generated widespread interest as a vital means of interaction between Large Language Models (LLMs) and the physical world. Current research predominantly emphasizes LLMs{'} capacity to utilize tools in well-structured environments while overlooking their stability when confronted with the inevitable noise of the real world. To bridge this gap, we introduce *RoTBench*, a multi-level benchmark for evaluating the robustness of LLMs in tool learning. Specifically, we establish five external environments, each featuring varying levels of noise (i.e., Clean, Slight, Medium, Heavy, and Union), providing an in-depth analysis of the model{'}s resilience across three critical phases: tool selection, parameter identification, and content filling. Experiments involving six widely-used models underscore the urgent necessity for enhancing the robustness of LLMs in tool learning. For instance, the performance of GPT-4 even drops significantly from 80.00 to 58.10 when there is no substantial change in manual accuracy. More surprisingly, the noise correction capability inherent in the GPT family paradoxically impedes its adaptability in the face of mild noise. In light of these findings, we propose RoTTuning, a strategy that enriches the diversity of training environments to bolster the robustness of LLMs in tool learning. The code and data are available at https://github.com/Junjie-Ye/RoTBench."}
{"Title": "Learning Planning-based Reasoning by Trajectories Collection and Process Reward Synthesizing", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated significant potential in handling complex reasoning tasks through step-by-step rationale generation. However, recent studies have raised concerns regarding the hallucination and flaws in their reasoning process. Substantial efforts are being made to improve the reliability and faithfulness of the generated rationales. Some approaches model reasoning as planning, while others focus on annotating for process supervision. Nevertheless, the planning-based search process often results in high latency due to the frequent assessment of intermediate reasoning states and the extensive exploration space. Additionally, supervising the reasoning process with human annotation is costly and challenging to scale for LLM training. To address these issues, in this paper, we propose a framework to learn planning-based reasoning through Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) on collected trajectories, which are ranked according to synthesized process rewards. Our results on challenging logical reasoning benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of our learning framework, showing that our 7B model can surpass the strong counterparts like GPT-3.5-Turbo."}
{"Title": "Scaling Properties of Speech Language Models", "Abstract": "Speech Language Models (SLMs) aim to learn language from raw audio, without textual resources. Despite significant advances, our current models exhibit weak syntax and semantic abilities. However, if the scaling properties of neural language models hold for the speech modality, these abilities will improve as the amount of compute used for training increases. In this paper, we use models of this scaling behavior to estimate the scale at which our current methods will yield a SLM with the English proficiency of text-based Large Language Models (LLMs). We establish a strong correlation between pre-training loss and downstream syntactic and semantic performance in SLMs and LLMs, which results in predictable scaling of linguistic performance. We show that the linguistic performance of SLMs scales up to three orders of magnitude more slowly than that of text-based LLMs. Additionally, we study the benefits of synthetic data designed to boost semantic understanding and the effects of coarser speech tokenization."}
{"Title": "\u201cWe Demand Justice!\u201d: Towards Social Context Grounding of Political Texts", "Abstract": "Political discourse on social media often contains similar language with opposing intended meanings. For example, the phrase thoughts and prayers, is used to express sympathy for mass shooting victims, as well as satirically criticize the lack of legislative action on gun control. Understanding such discourse fully by reading only the text is difficult. However, knowledge of the social context information makes it easier. We characterize the social context required to fully understand such ambiguous discourse, by grounding the text in real-world entities, actions, and attitudes. We propose two datasets that require understanding social context and benchmark them using large pre-trained language models and several novel structured models. We show that structured models, explicitly modeling social context, outperform larger models on both tasks, but still lag significantly behind human performance. Finally, we perform an extensive analysis, to obtain further insights into the language understanding challenges posed by our social grounding tasks."}
{"Title": "An Experimental Analysis on Evaluating Patent Citations", "Abstract": "The patent citation count is a good indicator of patent quality. This often generates monetary value for the inventors and organizations. However, the factors that influence a patent receiving high citations over the year are still not well understood. With the patents over the past two decades, we study the problem of patent citation prediction and formulate this as a binary classification problem. We create a semantic graph of patents based on their semantic similarities, enabling the use of Graph Neural Network (GNN)-based approaches for predicting citations. Our experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our GNN-based methods when applied to the semantic graph, showing that they can accurately predict patent citations using only patent text. More specifically, these methods produce up to 94{\\%} recall for patents with high citations and outperform existing baselines. Furthermore, we leverage this constructed graph to gain insights and explanations for the predictions made by the GNNs."}
{"Title": "Fine-Tuning Large Language Models to Translate: Will a Touch of Noisy Data in Misaligned Languages Suffice?", "Abstract": "Traditionally, success in multilingual machine translation can be attributed to three key factors in training data: large volume, diverse translation directions, and high quality. In the current practice of fine-tuning large language models (LLMs) for translation, we revisit the importance of these factors. We find that LLMs display strong translation capability after being fine-tuned on as few as 32 parallel sentences and that fine-tuning on a single translation direction enables translation in multiple directions. However, the choice of direction is critical: fine-tuning LLMs with only English on the target side can lead to task misinterpretation, which hinders translation into non-English languages. Problems also arise when noisy synthetic data is placed on the target side, especially when the target language is well-represented in LLM pre-training. Yet interestingly, synthesized data in an under-represented language has a less pronounced effect. Our findings suggest that when adapting LLMs to translation, the requirement on data quantity can be eased but careful considerations are still crucial to prevent an LLM from exploiting unintended data biases."}
{"Title": "Consolidating Ranking and Relevance Predictions of Large Language Models through Post-Processing", "Abstract": "The powerful generative abilities of large language models (LLMs) show potential in generating relevance labels for search applications. Previous work has found that directly asking about relevancy, such as ''*How relevant is document A to query Q?*{''}, results in suboptimal ranking. Instead, the pairwise-ranking prompting (PRP) approach produces promising ranking performance through asking about pairwise comparisons, e.g., ''*Is document A more relevant than document B to query Q?*{''}. Thus, while LLMs are effective at their ranking ability, this is not reflected in their relevance label generation.In this work, we propose a post-processing method to consolidate the relevance labels generated by an LLM with its powerful ranking abilities. Our method takes both LLM generated relevance labels and pairwise preferences. The labels are then altered to satisfy the pairwise preferences of the LLM, while staying as close to the original values as possible. Our experimental results indicate that our approach effectively balances label accuracy and ranking performance. Thereby, our work shows it is possible to combine both the ranking and labeling abilities of LLMs through post-processing."}
{"Title": "Strength Lies in Differences! Improving Strategy Planning for Non-collaborative Dialogues via Diversified User Simulation", "Abstract": "We investigate non-collaborative dialogue agents, which are expected to engage in strategic conversations with diverse users, for securing a mutual agreement that leans favorably towards the system{'}s objectives. This poses two main challenges for existing dialogue agents: 1) The inability to integrate user-specific characteristics into the strategic planning, and 2) The difficulty of training strategic planners that can be generalized to diverse users. To address these challenges, we propose TRIP to enhance the capability in tailored strategic planning, incorporating a user-aware strategic planning module and a population-based training paradigm. Through experiments on benchmark non-collaborative dialogue tasks, we demonstrate the effectiveness of TRIP in catering to diverse users."}
{"Title": "Impeding LLM-assisted Cheating in Introductory Programming Assignments via Adversarial Perturbation", "Abstract": "While Large language model (LLM)-based programming assistants such as CoPilot and ChatGPT can help improve the productivity of professional software developers, they can also facilitate cheating in introductory computer programming courses. Assuming instructors have limited control over the industrial-strength models, this paper investigates the baseline performance of 5 widely used LLMs on a collection of introductory programming problems, examines adversarial perturbations to degrade their performance, and describes the results of a user study aimed at measuring the efficacy of such perturbations in hindering actual code generation for introductory programming assignments. The user study suggests that i) perturbations combinedly reduced the average correctness score by 77{\\%}, ii) the drop in correctness caused by these perturbations was affected based on their detectability."}
{"Title": "Clustering and Ranking: Diversity-preserved Instruction Selection through Expert-aligned Quality Estimation", "Abstract": "With contributions from the open-source community, a vast amount of instruction tuning (IT) data has emerged. Given the significant resource allocation required by training and evaluating models, it is advantageous to have an efficient method for selecting high-quality IT data. However, existing methods for instruction data selection have limitations such as relying on fragile external APIs, being affected by biases in GPT models, or reducing the diversity of the selected instruction dataset. In this paper, we propose an industrial-friendly, expert-aligned and diversity-preserved instruction data selection method: Clustering and Ranking (CaR). CaR consists of two steps. The first step involves ranking instruction pairs using a scoring model that is well aligned with expert preferences (achieving an accuracy of 84.25{\\%}). The second step involves preserving dataset diversity through a clustering process. In our experiment, CaR selected a subset containing only 1.96{\\%} of Alpaca{'}s IT data, yet the underlying AlpaCaR model trained on this subset outperforms Alpaca by an average of 32.1{\\%} in GPT-4 evaluations. Furthermore, our method utilizes small models (550M parameters) and requires only 11.2{\\%} of the monetary cost compared to existing methods, making it easily deployable in industrial scenarios."}
{"Title": "On the Influence of Gender and Race in Romantic Relationship Prediction from Large Language Models", "Abstract": "We study the presence of heteronormative biases and prejudice against interracial romantic relationships in large language models by performing controlled name-replacement experiments for the task of relationship prediction. We show that models are less likely to predict romantic relationships for (a) same-gender character pairs than different-gender pairs; and (b) intra/inter-racial character pairs involving Asian names as compared to Black, Hispanic, or White names. We examine the contextualized embeddings of first names and find that gender for Asian names is less discernible than non-Asian names. We discuss the social implications of our findings, underlining the need to prioritize the development of inclusive and equitable technology."}
{"Title": "EmphAssess : a Prosodic Benchmark on Assessing Emphasis Transfer in Speech-to-Speech Models", "Abstract": "We introduce EmphAssess, a prosodic benchmark designed to evaluate the capability of speech-to-speech models to encode and reproduce prosodic emphasis. We apply this to two tasks: speech resynthesis and speech-to-speech translation. In both cases, the benchmark evaluates the ability of the model to encode emphasis in the speech input and accurately reproduce it in the output, potentially across a change of speaker and language. As part of the evaluation pipeline, we introduce EmphaClass, a new model that classifies emphasis at the frame or word level."}
{"Title": "On Fake News Detection with LLM Enhanced Semantics Mining", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have emerged as valuable tools for enhancing textual features in various text-related tasks. Despite their superiority in capturing the lexical semantics between tokens for text analysis, our preliminary study on two popular LLMs, i.e., ChatGPT and Llama2, showcases that simply applying the news embeddings from LLMs is ineffective for fake news detection. Such embeddings only encapsulate the language styles between tokens. Meanwhile, the high-level semantics among named entities and topics, which reveal the deviating patterns of fake news, have been ignored. Therefore, we propose a topic model together with a set of specially designed prompts to extract topics and real entities from LLMs and model the relations among news, entities, and topics as a heterogeneous graph to facilitate investigating news semantics. We then propose a Generalized Page-Rank model and a consistent learning criteria for mining the local and global semantics centered on each news piece through the adaptive propagation of features across the graph. Our model shows superior performance on five benchmark datasets over seven baseline methods and the efficacy of the key ingredients has been thoroughly validated."}
{"Title": "On Sensitivity of Learning with Limited Labelled Data to the Effects of Randomness: Impact of Interactions and Systematic Choices", "Abstract": "While learning with limited labelled data can effectively deal with a lack of labels, it is also sensitive to the effects of uncontrolled randomness introduced by so-called randomness factors (i.e., non-deterministic decisions such as choice or order of samples). We propose and formalise a method to systematically investigate the effects of individual randomness factors while taking the interactions (dependence) between them into consideration. To this end, our method mitigates the effects of other factors while observing how the performance varies across multiple runs. Applying our method to multiple randomness factors across in-context learning and fine-tuning approaches on 7 representative text classification tasks and meta-learning on 3 tasks, we show that: 1) disregarding interactions between randomness factors in existing works led to inconsistent findings due to incorrect attribution of the effects of randomness factors, such as disproving the consistent sensitivity of in-context learning to sample order even with random sample selection; and 2) besides mutual interactions, the effects of randomness factors, especially sample order, are also dependent on more systematic choices unexplored in existing works, such as number of classes, samples per class or choice of prompt format."}
{"Title": "Evaluating the Instruction-Following Robustness of Large Language Models to Prompt Injection", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional proficiency in instruction-following, making them increasingly integral to various applications. However, this capability introduces the risk of prompt injection attacks, where malicious instructions are embedded in the input to trigger unintended actions or content. Understanding the robustness of LLMs against such attacks is critical for ensuring their safe deployment. In this work, we establish a benchmark to evaluate the robustness of instruction-following LLMs against prompt injection attacks, assessing their ability to discern which instructions to follow and which to disregard. Through extensive experiments with leading instruction-following LLMs, we reveal significant vulnerabilities, particularly in models that mis-follow injected instructions. Our results show that certain models are excessively inclined to prioritize embedded instructions in prompts, often focusing on the latter parts of the prompt without fully understanding the overall context. Conversely, models that exhibit stronger contextual understanding and instruction-following capabilities tend to be more easily compromised by injected instructions. These findings highlight the need to balance improving LLMs{'} instruction-following abilities with enhancing their overall comprehension of prompts, to prevent mis-following inappropriate instructions. We hope our analysis provides valuable insights into these vulnerabilities, contributing to the development of more robust solutions in the future."}
{"Title": "A Study of Nationality Bias in Names and Perplexity using Off-the-Shelf Affect-related Tweet Classifiers", "Abstract": "In this paper, we apply a method to quantify biases associated with named entities from various countries. We create counterfactual examples with small perturbations on target-domain data instead of relying on templates or specific datasets for bias detection. On widely used classifiers for subjectivity analysis, including sentiment, emotion, hate speech, and offensive text using Twitter data, our results demonstrate positive biases related to the language spoken in a country across all classifiers studied. Notably, the presence of certain country names in a sentence can strongly influence predictions, up to a 23{\\%} change in hate speech detection and up to a 60{\\%} change in the prediction of negative emotions such as anger. We hypothesize that these biases stem from the training data of pre-trained language models (PLMs) and find correlations between affect predictions and PLMs likelihood in English and unknown languages like Basque and Maori, revealing distinct patterns with exacerbate correlations. Further, we followed these correlations in-between counterfactual examples from a same sentence to remove the syntactical component, uncovering interesting results suggesting the impact of the pre-training data was more important for English-speaking-country names."}
{"Title": "Mitigating the Alignment Tax of RLHF", "Abstract": "LLMs acquire a wide range of abilities during pre-training, but aligning LLMs under Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) can lead to forgetting pretrained abilities, which is also known as the alignment tax. To investigate alignment tax, we conducted experiments with existing RLHF algorithms using OpenLLaMA-3B, which revealed a pronounced alignment tax in NLP tasks. Whereas, despite various techniques to mitigate forgetting, they are often at odds with the RLHF performance, leading to a trade-off between alignment performance and forgetting mitigation, leading to an alignment-forgetting trade-off. In this paper we show that model averaging, which simply interpolates between pre and post RLHF model weights, surprisingly achieves the most strongest alignment-forgetting Pareto front among a wide range of competing methods. To understand its effectiveness, we offer theoretical insights into model averaging, revealing that it enhances performance Pareto front by increasing feature diversity on the layers where tasks share overlapped feature spaces. Empirical evidence corroborates our analysis by showing the benefits of averaging low-level transformer layers. Building on the analysis and the observation that averaging different layers of the transformer leads to significantly different alignment-forgetting trade-offs, we propose Heterogeneous Model Averaging (HMA) to Heterogeneously find various combination ratios of model layers. HMA seeks to maximize the alignment performance while incurring minimal alignment tax. Moreover, we validate HMA{'}s performance across a range of RLHF algorithms over OpenLLaMA-3B and further extend our findings to Mistral-7B which is evaluated by open-sourced preference model and GPT4. Code available here."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Readability and Faithfulness of Concept-based Explanations", "Abstract": "With the growing popularity of general-purpose Large Language Models (LLMs), comes a need for more global explanations of model behaviors. Concept-based explanations arise as a promising avenue for explaining high-level patterns learned by LLMs. Yet their evaluation poses unique challenges, especially due to their non-local nature and high dimensional representation in a model{'}s hidden space. Current methods approach concepts from different perspectives, lacking a unified formalization. This makes evaluating the core measures of concepts, namely faithfulness or readability, challenging. To bridge the gap, we introduce a formal definition of concepts generalizing to diverse concept-based explanations{'} settings. Based on this, we quantify the faithfulness of a concept explanation via perturbation. We ensure adequate perturbation in the high-dimensional space for different concepts via an optimization problem. Readability is approximated via an automatic and deterministic measure, quantifying the coherence of patterns that maximally activate a concept while aligning with human understanding. Finally, based on measurement theory, we apply a meta-evaluation method for evaluating these measures, generalizable to other types of explanations or tasks as well. Extensive experimental analysis has been conducted to inform the selection of explanation evaluation measures."}
{"Title": "Personality-aware Student Simulation for Conversational Intelligent Tutoring Systems", "Abstract": "Intelligent Tutoring Systems (ITSs) can provide personalized and self-paced learning experience. The emergence of large language models (LLMs) further enables better human-machine interaction, and facilitates the development of conversational ITSs in various disciplines such as math and language learning. In dialogic teaching, recognizing and adapting to individual characteristics can significantly enhance student engagement and learning efficiency. However, characterizing and simulating student{'}s persona remain challenging in training and evaluating conversational ITSs. In this work, we propose a framework to construct profiles of different student groups by refining and integrating both cognitive and noncognitive aspects, and leverage LLMs for personality-aware student simulation in a language learning scenario. We further enhance the framework with multi-aspect validation, and conduct extensive analysis from both teacher and student perspectives. Our experimental results show that state-of-the-art LLMs can produce diverse student responses according to the given language ability and personality traits, and trigger teacher{'}s adaptive scaffolding strategies."}
{"Title": "MSI-Agent: Incorporating Multi-Scale Insight into Embodied Agents for Superior Planning and Decision-Making", "Abstract": "Insight gradually becomes a crucial form of long-term memory for an agent. However, the emergence of irrelevant insight and the lack of general insight can greatly undermine the effectiveness of insight. To solve this problem, in this paper, we introduce **M**ulti-**S**cale **I**nsight Agent (MSI-Agent), an embodied agent designed to improve LLMs{'} planning and decision-making ability by summarizing and utilizing insight effectively across different scales. MSI achieves this through the experience selector, insight generator, and insight selector. Leveraging a three-part pipeline, MSI can generate task-specific and high-level insight, store it in a database, and then use relevant insight from it to aid in decision-making. Our experiments show that MSI outperforms another insight strategy when planning by GPT3.5. Moreover, We delve into the strategies for selecting seed experience and insight, aiming to provide LLM with more useful and relevant insight for better decision-making. Our observations also indicate that MSI exhibits better robustness when facing domain-shifting scenarios."}
{"Title": "CoCoLoFa: A Dataset of News Comments with Common Logical Fallacies Written by LLM-Assisted Crowds", "Abstract": "Detecting logical fallacies in texts can help users spot argument flaws, but automating this detection is not easy. Manually annotating fallacies in large-scale, real-world text data to create datasets for developing and validating detection models is costly. This paper introduces CoCoLoFa, the largest known logical fallacy dataset, containing 7,706 comments for 648 news articles, with each comment labeled for fallacy presence and type. We recruited 143 crowd workers to write comments embodying specific fallacy types (e.g., slippery slope) in response to news articles. Recognizing the complexity of this writing task, we built an LLM-powered assistant into the workers{'} interface to aid in drafting and refining their comments. Experts rated the writing quality and labeling validity of CoCoLoFa as high and reliable. BERT-based models fine-tuned using CoCoLoFa achieved the highest fallacy detection (F1=0.86) and classification (F1=0.87) performance on its test set, outperforming the state-of-the-art LLMs. Our work shows that combining crowdsourcing and LLMs enables us to more effectively construct datasets for complex linguistic phenomena that crowd workers find challenging to produce on their own."}
{"Title": "Tokenization Is More Than Compression", "Abstract": "Tokenization is a foundational step in natural language processing (NLP) tasks, bridging raw text and language models. Existing tokenization approaches like Byte-Pair Encoding (BPE) originate from the field of data compression, and it has been suggested that the effectiveness of BPE stems from its ability to condense text into a relatively small number of tokens. We test the hypothesis that fewer tokens lead to better downstream performance by introducing PathPiece, a new tokenizer that segments a document{'}s text into the minimum number of tokens for a given vocabulary. Through extensive experimentation we find this hypothesis not to be the case, casting doubt on the understanding of the reasons for effective tokenization. To examine which other factors play a role, we evaluate design decisions across all three phases of tokenization: pre-tokenization, vocabulary construction, and segmentation, offering new insights into the design of effective tokenizers. Specifically, we illustrate the importance of pre-tokenization and the benefits of using BPE to initialize vocabulary construction. We train 64 language models with varying tokenization, ranging in size from 350M to 2.4B parameters, all of which are made publicly available."}
{"Title": "FLIRT: Feedback Loop In-context Red Teaming", "Abstract": "Warning: this paper contains content that may be inappropriate or offensive.As generative models become available for public use in various applications, testing and analyzing vulnerabilities of these models has become a priority. In this work, we propose an automatic red teaming framework that evaluates a given black-box model and exposes its vulnerabilities against unsafe and inappropriate content generation. Our framework uses in-context learning in a feedback loop to red team models and trigger them into unsafe content generation. In particular, taking text-to-image models as target models, we explore different feedback mechanisms to automatically learn effective and diverse adversarial prompts. Our experiments demonstrate that even with enhanced safety features, Stable Diffusion (SD) models are vulnerable to our adversarial prompts, raising concerns on their robustness in practical uses. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the proposed framework is effective for red teaming text-to-text models."}
{"Title": "Successfully Guiding Humans with Imperfect Instructions by Highlighting Potential Errors and Suggesting Corrections", "Abstract": "Language models will inevitably err in situations with which they are unfamiliar. However, by effectively communicating uncertainties, they can still guide humans toward making sound decisions in those contexts. We demonstrate this idea by developing HEAR, a system that can successfully guide humans in simulated residential environments despite generating potentially inaccurate instructions. Diverging from systems that provide users with only the instructions they generate, HEAR warns users of potential errors in its instructions and suggests corrections. This rich uncertainty information effectively prevents misguidance and reduces the search space for users. Evaluation with 80 users shows that HEAR achieves a 13{\\%} increase in success rate and a 29{\\%} reduction in final location error distance compared to only presenting instructions to users. Interestingly, we find that offering users possibilities to explore, HEAR motivates them to make more attempts at the task, ultimately leading to a higher success rate. To our best knowledge, this work is the first to show the practical benefits of uncertainty communication in a long-horizon sequential decision-making problem."}
{"Title": "Parameter-Efficient Sparsity Crafting from Dense to Mixture-of-Experts for Instruction Tuning on General Tasks", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated considerable proficiency in general natural language processing (NLP) tasks. Instruction tuning, a successful paradigm, enhances the ability of LLMs to follow natural language instructions and exhibit robust generalization across general tasks. However, these models often encounter performance limitations across multiple tasks due to constrained model capacity. Expanding this capacity during the instruction tuning phase poses significant challenges. To address this issue, we introduce parameter-efficient sparsity crafting (PESC), which crafts dense models into sparse models using the mixture-of-experts (MoE) architecture. PESC integrates adapters into the MoE layers of sparse models, differentiating experts without altering the individual weights within these layers. This method significantly reduces computational costs and GPU memory requirements, facilitating model capacity expansion through a minimal parameter increase when guaranteeing the quality of approximation in function space compared to original sparse upcycling. Our empirical evaluation demonstrates the effectiveness of the PESC method. Using PESC during instruction tuning, our best sparse model outperforms other sparse and dense models and exhibits superior general capabilities compared to GPT-3.5.Our code is available at https://github.com/wuhy68/Parameter-Efficient-MoE."}
{"Title": "GeoGPT4V: Towards Geometric Multi-modal Large Language Models with Geometric Image Generation", "Abstract": "Large language models have seen widespread adoption in math problem-solving, yet for geometry problems, which often necessitate visual aids even for humans, the most advanced multi-modal models still struggle to effectively utilize image information. High-quality data is crucial for enhancing the geometric capabilities of multi-modal models, yet existing open-source datasets and related efforts are either too challenging for direct model learning or suffer from misalignment between text and images. To overcome this issue, we introduce a novel pipeline that leverages GPT-4 and GPT-4V to generate relatively basic geometry problems with aligned text and images, facilitating model learning. We have produced a dataset of 4.9K geometry problems and combined it with 19K open-source data to form our GeoGPT4V dataset. Experimental results demonstrate that the GeoGPT4V dataset significantly improves the geometry performance of various models on the MathVista and MathVision benchmarks. The code is available at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/GeoGPT4V-08B2."}
{"Title": "DyVo: Dynamic Vocabularies for Learned Sparse Retrieval with Entities", "Abstract": "Learned Sparse Retrieval (LSR) models use vocabularies from pre-trained transformers, which often split entities into nonsensical fragments. Splitting entities diminishes retrieval accuracy and limits the model{'}s ability to incorporate up-to-date world knowledge not included in the training data. In this work, we enhance the LSR vocabulary with Wikipedia concepts and entities, enabling the model to resolve ambiguities more effectively and stay current with evolving knowledge. Central to our approach is a Dynamic Vocabulary (DyVo) head, which leverages existing entity embeddings and an entity retrieval component that identifies entities relevant to a query or document. We use the DyVo head to generate entity weights, which are then merged with word piece weights to create joint representations for efficient indexing and retrieval using an inverted index. In experiments across three entity-rich document ranking datasets, the resulting DyVo model substantially outperforms several state-of-the-art baselines."}
{"Title": "Let the Expert Stick to His Last: Expert-Specialized Fine-Tuning for Sparse Architectural Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Parameter-efficient fine-tuning (\\textbf{PEFT}) is crucial for customizing Large Language Models (LLMs) with constrained resource. Although there have been various PEFT methods for dense-architecture LLMs, PEFT for sparse-architecture LLMs is still underexplored. In this work, we study the PEFT method for LLMs with the Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) architecture and the contents of this work are mainly threefold: (1) We investigate the dispersion degree of the activated experts in customized tasks, and found that the routing distribution for specific task tend to be highly concentrated, while the distribution of activated experts varies significantly across different tasks. (2) We propose the expert-specialized fine-tuning method, which tunes the experts most relevant to downstream tasks while freezing the other experts; experimental results demonstrate that our method not only improves the tuning efficiency, but also matches or even surpasses the performance of full-parameter fine-tuning. (3) We further analyze the impact of the MoE architecture on expert-specialized fine-tuning. We find that MoE models with finer-grained experts are more advantageous in selecting the combination of experts that are most relevant to downstream tasks, thereby enhancing the both the training efficiency and effectiveness."}
{"Title": "LongEmbed: Extending Embedding Models for Long Context Retrieval", "Abstract": "Embedding models play a pivotal role in modern NLP applications such as document retrieval. However, existing embedding models are limited to encoding short documents of typically 512 tokens, restrained from application scenarios requiring long inputs. This paper explores context window extension of existing embedding models, pushing their input length to a maximum of 32,768. We begin by evaluating the performance of existing embedding models using our newly constructed LongEmbed benchmark, which includes two synthetic and four real-world tasks, featuring documents of varying lengths and dispersed target information. The benchmarking results highlight huge opportunities for enhancement in current models. Via comprehensive experiments, we demonstrate that training-free context window extension strategies can effectively increase the input length of these models by several folds. Moreover, comparison of models using Absolute Position Encoding (APE) and Rotary Position Encoding (RoPE) reveals the superiority of RoPE-based embedding models in context window extension, offering empirical guidance for future models. Our benchmark, code and trained models will be released to advance the research in long context embedding models."}
{"Title": "Making Large Language Models Better Reasoners with Orchestrated Streaming Experiences", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) can perform complex reasoning by generating intermediate reasoning steps using chain-of-thought prompting under zero-shot or few-shot settings. However, zero-shot prompting always encounters low performance, and the superior performance of few-shot prompting hinges on the manual-crafting of task-specific demonstrations one by one. In this paper, we present **RoSE** (**R**easoning with **O**rchestrated **S**treaming **E**xperiences), a general framework for solving reasoning tasks that can self-improve as it answers various reasoning questions. To enable RoSE, we describe an architecture that extends an LLM to store all answered reasoning questions and their reasoning steps in a streaming experience pool and orchestrate helpful questions from the pool to assist itself in answering new questions. To set up a question-aware orchestration mechanism, RoSE first calculates the similarity of each question in the pool with the question to be answered. Since the solution to each question in the experience pool is not always correct, RoSE will sort the questions according to their similarity with the question to be answered, and then uniformly divide them into multiple buckets. It finally extracts one question from each bucket to make the extracted questions more diverse. To make the extracted questions help RoSE answer new questions as much as possible, we introduce two other attributes of uncertainty and complexity for each question. RoSE will preferentially select the questions with low uncertainty and high complexity from each bucket. We evaluate the versatility of RoSE in various complex reasoning tasks and LLMs, such as arithmetic and commonsense reasoning, and find that it can achieve excellent performance without any labeled data and pre-set unlabeled data."}
{"Title": "Overcome Noise and Bias: Segmentation-Aided Multi-Granularity Denoising and Debiasing for Enhanced Quarduples Extraction in Dialogue", "Abstract": "Dialogue Aspect-based Sentiment Quadruple analysis (DiaASQ) extends ABSA to more complex real-world scenarios (i.e., dialogues), which makes existing generation methods encounter heightened noise and order bias challenges, leading to decreased robustness and accuracy.To address these, we propose the Segmentation-Aided multi-grained Denoising and Debiasing (SADD) method. For noise, we propose the Multi-Granularity Denoising Generation model (MGDG), achieving word-level denoising via sequence labeling and utterance-level denoising via topic-aware dialogue segmentation. Denoised Attention in MGDG integrates multi-grained denoising information to help generate denoised output.For order bias, we first theoretically analyze its direct cause as the gap between ideal and actual training objectives and propose a distribution-based solution. Since this solution introduces a one-to-many learning challenge, our proposed Segmentation-aided Order Bias Mitigation (SOBM) method utilizes dialogue segmentation to supplement order diversity, concurrently mitigating this challenge and order bias.Experiments demonstrate SADD{'}s effectiveness, achieving state-of-the-art results with a 6.52{\\%} F1 improvement."}
{"Title": "Integrating Plutchik's Theory with Mixture of Experts for Enhancing Emotion Classification", "Abstract": "Emotion significantly influences human behavior and decision-making processes. We propose a labeling methodology grounded in Plutchik{'}s Wheel of Emotions theory for emotion classification. Furthermore, we employ a Mixture of Experts (MoE) architecture to evaluate the efficacy of this labeling approach, by identifying the specific emotions that each expert learns to classify. Experimental results reveal that our methodology improves the performance of emotion classification."}
{"Title": "In-context Contrastive Learning for Event Causality Identification", "Abstract": "Event Causality Identification (ECI) aims at determining the existence of a causal relation between two events. Although recent prompt learning-based approaches have shown promising improvements on the ECI task, their performance are often subject to the delicate design of multiple prompts and the positive correlations between the main task and derivate tasks. The in-context learning paradigm provides explicit guidance for label prediction in the prompt learning paradigm, alleviating its reliance on complex prompts and derivative tasks. However, it does not distinguish between positive and negative demonstrations for analogy learning. Motivated from such considerations, this paper proposes an **I**n-**C**ontext **C**ontrastive **L**earning (ICCL) model that utilizes contrastive learning to enhance the effectiveness of both positive and negative demonstrations. Additionally, we apply contrastive learning to event pairs to better facilitate event causality identification. Our ICCL is evaluated on the widely used corpora, including the EventStoryLine and Causal-TimeBank, and results show significant performance improvements over the state-of-the-art algorithms."}
{"Title": "What's Mine becomes Yours: Defining, Annotating and Detecting Context-Dependent Paraphrases in News Interview Dialogs", "Abstract": "Best practices for high conflict conversations like counseling or customer support almost always include recommendations to paraphrase the previous speaker. Although paraphrase classification has received widespread attention in NLP, paraphrases are usually considered independent from context, and common models and datasets are not applicable to dialog settings. In this work, we investigate paraphrases across turns in dialog (e.g., Speaker 1: {``}That book is mine.{''} becomes Speaker 2: {``}That book is yours.{''}). We provide an operationalization of context-dependent paraphrases, and develop a training for crowd-workers to classify paraphrases in dialog. We introduce ContextDeP, a dataset with utterance pairs from NPR and CNN news interviews annotated for context-dependent paraphrases. To enable analyses on label variation, the dataset contains 5,581 annotations on 600 utterance pairs. We present promising results with in-context learning and with token classification models for automatic paraphrase detection in dialog."}
{"Title": "Language Models Learn Rare Phenomena from Less Rare Phenomena: The Case of the Missing AANNs", "Abstract": "Language models learn rare syntactic phenomena, but the extent to which this is attributable to generalization vs. memorization is a major open question. To that end, we iteratively trained transformer language models on systematically manipulated corpora which were human-scale in size, and then evaluated their learning of a rare grammatical phenomenon: the English Article+Adjective+Numeral+Noun (AANN) construction ({``}a beautiful five days{''}). We compared how well this construction was learned on the default corpus relative to a counterfactual corpus in which AANN sentences were removed. We found that AANNs were still learned better than systematically perturbed variants of the construction. Using additional counterfactual corpora, we suggest that this learning occurs through generalization from related constructions (e.g., {``}a few days{''}). An additional experiment showed that this learning is enhanced when there is more variability in the input. Taken together, our results provide an existence proof that LMs can learn rare grammatical phenomena by generalization from less rare phenomena. Data and code: https://github.com/kanishkamisra/aannalysis."}
{"Title": "Large Language Models for Data Annotation and Synthesis: A Survey", "Abstract": "Data annotation and synthesis generally refers to the labeling or generating of raw data with relevant information, which could be used for improving the efficacy of machine learning models. The process, however, is labor-intensive and costly. The emergence of advanced Large Language Models (LLMs), exemplified by GPT-4, presents an unprecedented opportunity to automate the complicated process of data annotation and synthesis. While existing surveys have extensively covered LLM architecture, training, and general applications, we uniquely focus on their specific utility for data annotation. This survey contributes to three core aspects: LLM-Based Annotation Generation, LLM-Generated Annotations Assessment, and LLM-Generated Annotations Utilization. Furthermore, this survey includes an in-depth taxonomy of data types that LLMs can annotate, a comprehensive review of learning strategies for models utilizing LLM-generated annotations, and a detailed discussion of the primary challenges and limitations associated with using LLMs for data annotation and synthesis. Serving as a key guide, this survey aims to assist researchers and practitioners in exploring the potential of the latest LLMs for data annotation, thereby fostering future advancements in this critical field."}
{"Title": "Chain-of-Dictionary Prompting Elicits Translation in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have shown surprisingly good performance in multilingual neural machine translation (MNMT) even if not being trained explicitly for translation. Yet, they still struggle with translating low-resource languages. As supported by our experiments, a bilingual dictionary between the source and the target language could help. Motivated by the fact that multilingual training effectively improves cross-lingual performance, we show that a chained multilingual dictionary with words expressed in more languages can provide more information to better enhance the LLM translation. To this end, we present a novel framework, CoD, Chain-of-Dictionary Prompting, which augments LLMs with prior knowledge with the chains of multilingual dictionaries for a subset of input words to elicit translation abilities for LLMs. Experiments indicate that ChatGPT and InstructGPT still have room for improvement in translating many language pairs. And CoD elicits large gains by up to 13x chrF++ points for MNMT (3.08 to 42.63 for English to Serbian written in Cyrillic script) on FLORES-200 full devtest set. We demonstrate the importance of chaining the multilingual dictionaries, as well as the superiority of CoD to few-shot in-context learning for low-resource languages. Using CoD helps ChatGPT to obviously surpass the SOTA translator NLLB 3.3B."}
{"Title": "AdaZeta: Adaptive Zeroth-Order Tensor-Train Adaption for Memory-Efficient Large Language Models Fine-Tuning", "Abstract": "Fine-tuning large language models (LLMs) has achieved remarkable performance across various natural language processing tasks, yet it demands more and more memory as model sizes keep growing. To address this issue, the recently proposed Memory-efficient Zeroth-order (MeZO) methods attempt to fine-tune LLMs using only forward passes, thereby avoiding the need for a backpropagation graph. However, significant performance drops and a high risk of divergence have limited their widespread adoption. In this paper, we propose the Adaptive Zeroth-order Tensor-Train Adaption (AdaZeta) framework, specifically designed to improve the performance and convergence of the ZO methods. To enhance dimension-dependent ZO estimation accuracy, we introduce a fast-forward, low-parameter tensorized adapter. To tackle the frequently observed divergence issue in large-scale ZO fine-tuning tasks, we propose an adaptive query number schedule that guarantees convergence. Detailed theoretical analysis and extensive experimental results on Roberta-Large and Llama-2-7B models substantiate the efficacy of our AdaZeta framework in terms of accuracy, memory efficiency, and convergence speed."}
{"Title": "RoseLoRA: Row and Column-wise Sparse Low-rank Adaptation of Pre-trained Language Model for Knowledge Editing and Fine-tuning", "Abstract": "Pre-trained language models, trained on large-scale corpora, demonstrate strong generalizability across various NLP tasks. Fine-tuning these models for specific tasks typically involves updating all parameters, which is resource-intensive. Parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods, such as the popular LoRA family, introduce low-rank matrices to learn only a few parameters efficiently. However, during inference, the product of these matrices updates all pre-trained parameters, complicating tasks like knowledge editing that require selective updates. We propose a novel PEFT method, which conducts \\textbf{r}ow and c\\textbf{o}lumn-wise spar\\textbf{se} \\textbf{lo}w-\\textbf{r}ank \\textbf{a}daptation (RoseLoRA), to address this challenge. RoseLoRA identifies and updates only the most important parameters for a specific task, maintaining efficiency while preserving other model knowledge. By adding a sparsity constraint on the product of low-rank matrices and converting it to row and column-wise sparsity, we ensure efficient and precise model updates. Our theoretical analysis guarantees the lower bound of the sparsity with respective to the matrix product. Extensive experiments on five benchmarks across twenty datasets demonstrate that RoseLoRA outperforms baselines in both general fine-tuning and knowledge editing tasks."}
{"Title": "BlendFilter: Advancing Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models via Query Generation Blending and Knowledge Filtering", "Abstract": "Retrieval-augmented Large Language Models (LLMs) offer substantial benefits in enhancing performance across knowledge-intensive scenarios. However, these methods often struggle with complex inputs and encounter difficulties due to noisy knowledge retrieval, notably hindering model effectiveness. To address this issue, we introduce BlendFilter, a novel approach that elevates retrieval-augmented LLMs by integrating query generation blending with knowledge filtering. BlendFilter proposes the blending process through its query generation method, which integrates both external and internal knowledge augmentation with the original query, ensuring comprehensive information gathering. Additionally, our distinctive knowledge filtering module capitalizes on the intrinsic capabilities of the LLM, effectively eliminating extraneous data. We conduct extensive experiments on three open-domain question answering benchmarks, and the findings clearly indicate that our innovative BlendFilter surpasses state-of-the-art baselines significantly."}
{"Title": "HEART-felt Narratives: Tracing Empathy and Narrative Style in Personal Stories with LLMs", "Abstract": "Empathy serves as a cornerstone in enabling prosocial behaviors, and can be evoked through sharing of personal experiences in stories. While empathy is influenced by narrative content, intuitively, people respond to the way a story is told as well, through narrative style. Yet the relationship between empathy and narrative style is not fully understood. In this work, we empirically examine and quantify this relationship between style and empathy using LLMs and large-scale crowdsourcing studies. We introduce a novel, theory-based taxonomy, HEART (Human Empathy and Narrative Taxonomy) that delineates elements of narrative style that can lead to empathy with the narrator of a story. We establish the performance of LLMs in extracting narrative elements from HEART, showing that prompting with our taxonomy leads to reasonable, human-level annotations beyond what prior lexicon-based methods can do. To show empirical use of our taxonomy, we collect a dataset of empathy judgments of stories via a large-scale crowdsourcing study with $N=2,624$ participants. We show that narrative elements extracted via LLMs, in particular, vividness of emotions and plot volume, can elucidate the pathways by which narrative style cultivates empathy towards personal stories. Our work suggests that such models can be used for narrative analyses that lead to human-centered social and behavioral insights."}
{"Title": "Eliminating Biased Length Reliance of Direct Preference Optimization via Down-Sampled KL Divergence", "Abstract": "Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) has emerged as a prominent algorithm for the direct and robust alignment of Large Language Models (LLMs) with human preferences, offering a more straightforward alternative to the complex Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF). Despite its promising efficacy, DPO faces a notable drawback: {``}verbosity{''}, a common over-optimization phenomenon also observed in RLHF. While previous studies mainly attributed verbosity to biased labels within the data, we propose that the issue also stems from an inherent algorithmic length reliance in DPO. Specifically, we suggest that the discrepancy between sequence-level Kullback{--}Leibler (KL) divergences between chosen and rejected sequences, used in DPO, results in overestimated or underestimated rewards due to varying token lengths. Empirically, we utilize datasets with different label lengths to demonstrate the presence of biased rewards. We then introduce an effective downsampling approach, named SamPO, to eliminate potential length reliance. Our experimental evaluations, conducted across three LLMs of varying scales and a diverse array of conditional and open-ended benchmarks, highlight the efficacy of SamPO in mitigating verbosity, achieving improvements of 5{\\%} to 12{\\%} over DPO through debaised rewards. Our code can be accessed at: https://github.com/LuJunru/SamPO/."}
{"Title": "Bridging Cultures in the Kitchen: A Framework and Benchmark for Cross-Cultural Recipe Retrieval", "Abstract": "The cross-cultural adaptation of recipes is an important application of identifying and bridging cultural differences in language. The challenge lies in retaining the essence of the original recipe while also aligning with the writing and dietary habits of the target culture. Information Retrieval (IR) offers a way to address the challenge because it retrieves results from the culinary practices of the target culture while maintaining relevance to the original recipe. We introduce a novel task about cross-cultural recipe retrieval and present a unique Chinese-English cross-cultural recipe retrieval benchmark. Our benchmark is manually annotated under limited resource, utilizing various retrieval models to generate a pool of candidate results for manual annotation. The dataset provides retrieval samples that are culturally adapted but textually diverse, presenting greater challenges. We propose CARROT, a plug-and-play cultural-aware recipe information retrieval framework that incorporates cultural-aware query rewriting and re-ranking methods and evaluate it both on our benchmark and intuitive human judgments. The results show that our framework significantly enhances the preservation of the original recipe and its cultural appropriateness for the target culture. We believe these insights will significantly contribute to future research on cultural adaptation."}
{"Title": "RULE: Reliable Multimodal RAG for Factuality in Medical Vision Language Models", "Abstract": "The recent emergence of Medical Large Vision Language Models (Med-LVLMs) has enhanced medical diagnosis. However, current Med-LVLMs frequently encounter factual issues, often generating responses that do not align with established medical facts. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), which utilizes external knowledge, can improve the factual accuracy of these models but introduces two major challenges. First, limited retrieved contexts might not cover all necessary information, while excessive retrieval can introduce irrelevant and inaccurate references, interfering with the model{'}s generation. Second, in cases where the model originally responds correctly, applying RAG can lead to an over-reliance on retrieved contexts, resulting in incorrect answers. To address these issues, we propose RULE, which consists of two components. First, we introduce a provably effective strategy for controlling factuality risk through the calibrated selection of the number of retrieved contexts. Second, based on samples where over-reliance on retrieved contexts led to errors, we curate a preference dataset to fine-tune the model, balancing its dependence on inherent knowledge and retrieved contexts for generation. We demonstrate the effectiveness of RAFE on three medical VQA datasets, achieving an average improvement of 20.8{\\%} in factual accuracy."}
{"Title": "CryptoTrade: A Reflective LLM-based Agent to Guide Zero-shot Cryptocurrency Trading", "Abstract": "The utilization of Large Language Models (LLMs) in financial trading has primarily been concentrated within the stock market, aiding in economic and financial decisions. Yet, the unique opportunities presented by the cryptocurrency market, noted for its on-chain data{'}s transparency and the critical influence of off-chain signals like news, remain largely untapped by LLMs. This work aims to bridge the gap by developing an LLM-based trading agent, CryptoTrade, which uniquely combines the analysis of on-chain and off-chain data. This approach leverages the transparency and immutability of on-chain data, as well as the timeliness and influence of off-chain signals, providing a comprehensive overview of the cryptocurrency market. CryptoTrade incorporates a reflective mechanism specifically engineered to refine its daily trading decisions by analyzing the outcomes of prior trading decisions. This research makes two significant contributions. Firstly, it broadens the applicability of LLMs to the domain of cryptocurrency trading. Secondly, it establishes a benchmark for cryptocurrency trading strategies. Through extensive experiments, CryptoTrade has demonstrated superior performance in maximizing returns compared to time-series baselines, but not compared to traditional trading signals, across various cryptocurrencies and market conditions. Our code and data are available at \\url{https://github.com/Xtra-Computing/CryptoTrade}"}
{"Title": "A Survey on In-context Learning", "Abstract": "With the increasing capabilities of large language models (LLMs), in-context learning (ICL) has emerged as a new paradigm for natural language processing (NLP), where LLMs make predictions based on contexts augmented with a few examples. It has been a significant trend to explore ICL to evaluate and extrapolate the ability of LLMs. In this paper, we aim to survey and summarize the progress and challenges of ICL. We first present a formal definition of ICL and clarify its correlation to related studies. Then, we organize and discuss advanced techniques, including training strategies, prompt designing strategies, and related analysis. Additionally, we explore various ICL application scenarios, such as data engineering and knowledge updating. Finally, we address the challenges of ICL and suggest potential directions for further research. We hope that our work can encourage more research on uncovering how ICL works and improving ICL."}
{"Title": "DocHieNet: A Large and Diverse Dataset for Document Hierarchy Parsing", "Abstract": "Parsing documents from pixels, such as pictures and scanned PDFs, into hierarchical structures is extensively demanded in the daily routines of data storage, retrieval and understanding. However, previously the research on this topic has been largely hindered since most existing datasets are small-scale, or contain documents of only a single type, which are characterized by a lack of document diversity. Moreover, there is a significant discrepancy in the annotation standards across datasets. In this paper, we introduce a large and diverse document hierarchy parsing (DHP) dataset to compensate for the data scarcity and inconsistency problem. We aim to set a new standard as a more practical, long-standing benchmark. Meanwhile, we present a new DHP framework designed to grasp both fine-grained text content and coarse-grained pattern at layout element level, enhancing the capacity of pre-trained text-layout models in handling the multi-page and multi-level challenges in DHP. Through exhaustive experiments, we validate the effectiveness of our proposed dataset and method."}
{"Title": "AMR-Evol: Adaptive Modular Response Evolution Elicits Better Knowledge Distillation for Large Language Models in Code Generation", "Abstract": "The impressive performance of proprietary LLMs like GPT4 in code generation has led to a trend to replicate these capabilities in open-source models through knowledge distillation (e.g. Code Evol-Instruct). However, these efforts often neglect the crucial aspect of response quality, relying heavily on teacher models for direct response distillation. This paradigm, especially for complex instructions, can degrade the quality of synthesized data, compromising the knowledge distillation process. To this end, our study introduces the Adaptive Modular Response Evolution (AMR-Evol) framework, which employs a two-stage process to refine response distillation. The first stage, modular decomposition, breaks down the direct response into more manageable sub-modules. The second stage, adaptive response evolution, automatically evolves the response with the related function modules. Our experiments with three popular code benchmarks{---}HumanEval, MBPP, and EvalPlus{---}attests to the superiority of the AMR-Evol framework over baseline response distillation methods. By comparing with the open-source Code LLMs trained on a similar scale of data, we observed performance enhancements: more than +3.0 points on HumanEval-Plus and +1.0 points on MBPP-Plus, which underscores the effectiveness of our framework. Our codes are available at https://github.com/ChiYeungLaw/AMR-Evol."}
{"Title": "EFUF: Efficient Fine-Grained Unlearning Framework for Mitigating Hallucinations in Multimodal Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Multimodal large language models (MLLMs) have attracted increasing attention in the past few years, but they may still generate descriptions that include objects not present in the corresponding images, a phenomenon known as object hallucination. To eliminate hallucinations, existing methods manually annotate paired responses with and without hallucinations, and then employ various alignment algorithms to improve the alignment capability between images and text. However, they not only demand considerable computation resources during the finetuning stage but also require expensive human annotation to construct paired data needed by the alignment algorithms. To address these issues, we propose an efficient fine-grained unlearning framework (EFUF), which performs gradient ascent utilizing three tailored losses to eliminate hallucinations without paired data. Extensive experiments show that our method consistently reduces hallucinations while preserving the generation quality with modest computational overhead. Our code and datasets will be publicly available."}
{"Title": "Rethinking Pruning Large Language Models: Benefits and Pitfalls of Reconstruction Error Minimization", "Abstract": "This work suggests fundamentally rethinking the current practice of pruning large language models (LLMs). The way it is done is by divide and conquer: split the model into submodels, sequentially prune them, and reconstruct predictions of the dense counterparts on small calibration data one at a time; the final model is obtained simply by putting the resulting sparse submodels together. While this approach enables pruning under memory constraints, it generates high reconstruction errors. In this work, we first present an array of reconstruction techniques that can significantly reduce this error by more than 90{\\%}. Unwittingly, however, we discover that minimizing reconstruction error is not always ideal and can overfit the given calibration data, resulting in rather increased language perplexity and poor performance at downstream tasks. We find out that a strategy of self-generating calibration data can mitigate this trade-off between reconstruction and generalization, suggesting new directions in the presence of both benefits and pitfalls of reconstruction for pruning LLMs."}
{"Title": "LLMs Are Zero-Shot Context-Aware Simultaneous Translators", "Abstract": "The advent of transformers has fueled progress in machine translation. More recently large language models (LLMs) have come to the spotlight thanks to their generality and strong performance in a wide range of language tasks, including translation. Here we show that open-source LLMs perform on par with or better than some state-of-the-art baselines in simultaneous machine translation (SiMT) tasks, zero-shot. We also demonstrate that injection of minimal background information, which is easy with an LLM, brings further performance gains, especially on challenging technical subject-matter. This highlights LLMs{'} potential for building next generation of massively multilingual, context-aware and terminologically accurate SiMT systems that require no resource-intensive training or fine-tuning."}
{"Title": "AgentReview: Exploring Peer Review Dynamics with LLM Agents", "Abstract": "Peer review is fundamental to the integrity and advancement of scientific publication. Traditional methods of peer review analyses often rely on exploration and statistics of existing peer review data, which do not adequately address the multivariate nature of the process, account for the latent variables, and are further constrained by privacy concerns due to the sensitive nature of the data. We introduce AgentReview, the first large language model (LLM) based peer review simulation framework, which effectively disentangles the impacts of multiple latent factors and addresses the privacy issue. Our study reveals significant insights, including a notable 37.1{\\%} variation in paper decisions due to reviewers{'} biases, supported by sociological theories such as the social influence theory, altruism fatigue, and authority bias. We believe that this study could offer valuable insights to improve the design of peer review mechanisms."}
{"Title": "ChatRetriever: Adapting Large Language Models for Generalized and Robust Conversational Dense Retrieval", "Abstract": "Conversational search requires accurate interpretation of user intent from complex multi-turn contexts. This paper presents ChatRetriever, which inherits the strong generalization capability of large language models to robustly represent complex conversational sessions for dense retrieval. To achieve this, we propose a simple and effective dual-learning approach that adapts LLM for retrieval via contrastive learning while enhancing the complex session understanding through masked instruction tuning on high-quality conversational instruction tuning data. Extensive experiments on five conversational search benchmarks demonstrate that ChatRetriever significantly outperforms existing conversational dense retrievers, achieving state-of-the-art performance on par with LLM-based rewriting approaches. Furthermore, ChatRetriever exhibits superior robustness in handling diverse conversational contexts. Our work highlights the potential of adapting LLMs for retrieval with complex inputs like conversational search sessions and proposes an effective approach to advance this research direction."}
{"Title": "Fairer Preferences Elicit Improved Human-Aligned Large Language Model Judgments", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have shown promising abilities as cost-effective and reference-free evaluators for assessing language generation quality. In particular, pairwise LLM evaluators, which compare two generated texts and determine the preferred one, have been employed in a wide range of applications. However, LLMs exhibit preference biases and worrying sensitivity to prompt designs. In this work, we first reveal that the predictive preference of LLMs can be highly brittle and skewed, even with semantically equivalent instructions. We find that fairer predictive preferences from LLMs consistently lead to judgments that are better aligned with humans. Motivated by this phenomenon, we propose an automatic Zero-shot Evaluation-oriented Prompt Optimization framework, ZEPO, which aims to produce fairer preference decisions and improve the alignment of LLM evaluators with human judgments. To this end, we propose a zero-shot learning objective based on the preference decision fairness. ZEPO demonstrates substantial performance improvements over state-of-the-art LLM evaluators, without requiring labeled data, on representative meta-evaluation benchmarks. Our findings underscore the critical correlation between preference fairness and human alignment, positioning ZEPO as an efficient prompt optimizer for bridging the gap between LLM evaluators and human judgments."}
{"Title": "Learning Interpretable Legal Case Retrieval via Knowledge-Guided Case Reformulation", "Abstract": "Legal case retrieval for sourcing similar cases is critical in upholding judicial fairness. Different from general web search, legal case retrieval involves processing lengthy, complex, and highly specialized legal documents. Existing methods in this domain often overlook the incorporation of legal expert knowledge, which is crucial for accurately understanding and modeling legal cases, leading to unsatisfactory retrieval performance. This paper introduces KELLER, a legal knowledge-guided case reformulation approach based on large language models (LLMs) for effective and interpretable legal case retrieval. By incorporating professional legal knowledge about crimes and law articles, we enable large language models to accurately reformulate the original legal case into concise sub-facts of crimes, which contain the essential information of the case. Extensive experiments on two legal case retrieval benchmarks demonstrate superior retrieval performance and robustness on complex legal case queries of KELLER over existing methods."}
{"Title": "Effective Demonstration Annotation for In-Context Learning via Language Model-Based Determinantal Point Process", "Abstract": "In-context learning (ICL) is a few-shot learning paradigm that involves learning mappings through input-output pairs and appropriately applying them to new instances. Despite the remarkable ICL capabilities demonstrated by Large Language Models (LLMs), existing works are highly dependent on large-scale labeled support sets, not always feasible in practical scenarios. To refine this approach, we focus primarily on an innovative selective annotation mechanism, which precedes the standard demonstration retrieval. We introduce the Language Model-based Determinant Point Process (LM-DPP) that simultaneously considers the uncertainty and diversity of unlabeled instances for optimal selection. Consequently, this yields a subset for annotation that strikes a trade-off between the two factors. We apply LM-DPP to various language models, including GPT-J, LlaMA, and GPT-3. Experimental results on 9 NLU and 2 Generation datasets demonstrate that LM-DPP can effectively select canonical examples. Further analysis reveals that LLMs benefit most significantly from subsets that are both low uncertainty and high diversity."}
{"Title": "Pre-trained Language Models Do Not Help Auto-regressive Text-to-Image Generation", "Abstract": "Recent advances in image tokenizers, such as VQ-VAE, have enabled text-to-image generation using auto-regressive methods, similar to language modeling. However, these methods have yet to leverage pre-trained language models, despite their adaptability to various downstream tasks. In this work, we explore this gap by adapting a pre-trained language model for auto-regressive text-to-image generation, and find that pre-trained language models offer limited help. We provide a two-fold explanation by analyzing tokens from each modality. First, we demonstrate that image tokens possess significantly different semantics compared to text tokens, rendering pre-trained language models no more effective in modeling them than randomly initialized ones. Second, the text tokens in the image-text datasets are too simple compared to normal language model pre-training data, which causes the catastrophic degradation of language models{'} capability."}
{"Title": "QUDSELECT: Selective Decoding for Questions Under Discussion Parsing", "Abstract": "Question Under Discussion (QUD) is a discourse framework that uses implicit questions to reveal discourse relationships between sentences. In QUD parsing, each sentence is viewed as an answer to a question triggered by an anchor sentence in prior context. The resulting QUD structure is required to conform to several theoretical criteria like answer compatibility(how well the question is answered), making QUD parsing a challenging task. Previous works construct QUD parsers in a pipelined manner (i.e. detect the trigger sentence in context and then generate the question). However, these parsers lack a holistic view of the task and can hardly satisfy all the criteria. In this work, we introduce QUDSELECT, a joint-training framework that selectively decodes the QUD dependency structures considering the QUD criteria criteria. Using instruction-tuning, we train models to simultaneously predict the anchor sentence and generate the associated question. To explicitly incorporate the criteria, we adopt a selective decoding strategy of sampling multiple QUD candidates during inference, followed by selecting the best one with criteria scorers. Our method outperforms the state-of-the-art baseline models by 9{\\%} in human evaluation and 4{\\%} in automatic evaluation, demonstrating the effectiveness of our framework. Code and data are in https://github.com/asuvarna31/qudselect."}
{"Title": "Mitigating Language Bias of LMMs in Social Intelligence Understanding with Virtual Counterfactual Calibration", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Model Balancing Helps Low-data Training and Fine-tuning", "Abstract": "Recent advances in foundation models have emphasized the need to align pre-trained models with specialized domains using small, curated datasets. Studies on these foundation models underscore the importance of low-data training and fine-tuning. This topic, well-known in natural language processing (NLP), has also gained increasing attention in the emerging field of scientific machine learning (SciML). To address the limitations of low-data training and fine-tuning, we draw inspiration from Heavy-Tailed Self-Regularization (HT-SR) theory, analyzing the shape of empirical spectral densities (ESDs) and revealing an imbalance in training quality across different model layers. To mitigate this issue, we adapt a recently proposed layer-wise learning rate scheduler, TempBalance, which effectively balances training quality across layers and enhances low-data training and fine-tuning for both NLP and SciML tasks. Notably, TempBalance demonstrates increasing performance gains as the amount of available tuning data decreases. Comparative analyses further highlight the effectiveness of TempBalance and its adaptability as an {``}add-on{''} method for improving model performance."}
{"Title": "Reuse Your Rewards: Reward Model Transfer for Zero-Shot Cross-Lingual Alignment", "Abstract": "Aligning language models (LMs) based on human-annotated preference data is a crucial step in obtaining practical and performant LM-based systems. However, multilingual human preference data are difficult to obtain at scale, making it challenging to extend this framework to diverse languages. In this work, we evaluate a simple approach for zero-shot cross-lingual alignment, where a reward model is trained on preference data in one source language and directly applied to other target languages. On summarization and open-ended dialog generation, we show that this method is consistently successful under comprehensive evaluation settings, including human evaluation: cross-lingually aligned models are preferred by humans over unaligned models on up to {\\textgreater}70{\\%} of evaluation instances. We moreover find that a different-language reward model sometimes yields better aligned models than a same-language reward model. We also identify best practices when there is no language-specific data for even supervised finetuning, another component in alignment."}
{"Title": "Large Language Models as Foundations for Next-Gen Dense Retrieval: A Comprehensive Empirical Assessment", "Abstract": "Pre-trained language models like BERT and T5 serve as crucial backbone encoders for dense retrieval. However, these models often exhibit limited generalization capabilities and face challenges in improving in-domain accuracy. Recent research has explored using large language models (LLMs) as retrievers, achieving state-of-the-art performance across various tasks. Despite these advancements, the specific benefits of LLMs over traditional retrievers and the impact of different LLM configurations{---}such as parameter sizes, pre-training duration, and alignment processes{---}on retrieval tasks remain unclear. In this work, we conduct a comprehensive empirical study on a wide range of retrieval tasks, including in-domain accuracy, data efficiency, zero-shot generalization, lengthy retrieval, instruction-based retrieval, and multi-task learning. We evaluate over 15 different backbone LLMs and non-LLMs. Our findings reveal that larger models and extensive pre-training consistently enhance in-domain accuracy and data efficiency. Additionally, larger models demonstrate significant potential in zero-shot generalization, lengthy retrieval, instruction-based retrieval, and multi-task learning. These results underscore the advantages of LLMs as versatile and effective backbone encoders in dense retrieval, providing valuable insights for future research and development in this field."}
{"Title": "A New Pipeline for Knowledge Graph Reasoning Enhanced by Large Language Models Without Fine-Tuning", "Abstract": "Conventional Knowledge Graph Reasoning (KGR) models learn the embeddings of KG components over the structure of KGs, but their performances are limited when the KGs are severely incomplete. Recent LLM-enhanced KGR models input KG structural information into LLMs. However, they require fine-tuning on open-source LLMs and are not applicable to closed-source LLMs. Therefore, in this paper, to leverage the knowledge in LLMs without fine-tuning to assist and enhance conventional KGR models, we propose a new three-stage pipeline, including knowledge alignment, KG reasoning and entity reranking. Specifically, in the alignment stage, we propose three strategies to align the knowledge in LLMs to the KG schema by explicitly associating unconnected nodes with semantic relations. Based on the enriched KGs, we train structure-aware KGR models to integrate aligned knowledge to original knowledge existing in KGs. In the reranking stage, after obtaining the results of KGR models, we rerank the top-scored entities with LLMs to recall correct answers further. Experiments show our pipeline can enhance the KGR performance in both incomplete and general situations. Code and datasets are available."}
{"Title": "Towards Tool Use Alignment of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Recently, tool use with LLMs has become one of the primary research topics as it can help LLM generate truthful and helpful responses. Existing studies on tool use with LLMs primarily focus on enhancing the tool-calling ability of LLMs. In practice, like chat assistants, LLMs are also required to align with human values in the context of tool use. Specifically, LLMs should refuse to answer unsafe tool use relevant instructions and insecure tool responses to ensure their reliability and harmlessness. At the same time, LLMs should demonstrate autonomy in tool use to reduce the costs associated with tool calling. To tackle this issue, we first introduce the principle that LLMs should follow in tool use scenarios: H2A. The goal of H2A is to align LLMs with **helpfulness**, **harmlessness**, and **autonomy**. In addition, we propose ToolAlign, a dataset comprising instruction-tuning data and preference data to align LLMs with the H2A principle for tool use. Based on ToolAlign, we develop LLMs by supervised fine-tuning and preference learning, and experimental results demonstrate that the LLMs exhibit remarkable tool-calling capabilities, while also refusing to engage with harmful content, and displaying a high degree of autonomy in tool utilization. The code and datasets are available at: https://github.com/zhiyuanc2001/ToolAlign."}
{"Title": "DecorateLM: Data Engineering through Corpus Rating, Tagging, and Editing with Language Models", "Abstract": "The performance of Large Language Models (LLMs) is substantially influenced by the pretraining corpus, which consists of vast quantities of unsupervised data processed by the models. Despite its critical role in model performance, ensuring the quality of this data is challenging due to its sheer volume and the absence of sample-level quality annotations and enhancements. In this paper, we introduce DecorateLM, a data engineering method designed to refine the pretraining corpus through data rating, tagging and editing. Specifically, DecorateLM rates texts against quality criteria, tags texts with hierarchical labels, and edits texts into a more formalized format. Due to the massive size of the pretraining corpus, adopting an LLM for decorating the entire corpus is less efficient. Therefore, to balance performance with efficiency, we curate a meticulously annotated training corpus for DecorateLM using a large language model and distill data engineering expertise into a compact 1.2 billion parameter small language model (SLM). We then apply DecorateLM to enhance 100 billion tokens of the training corpus, selecting 45 billion tokens that exemplify high quality and diversity for the further training of another 1.2 billion parameter LLM. Our results demonstrate that employing such high-quality data can significantly boost model performance, showcasing a powerful approach to enhance the quality of the pretraining corpus."}
{"Title": "Lookback Lens: Detecting and Mitigating Contextual Hallucinations in Large Language Models Using Only Attention Maps", "Abstract": "When asked to summarize articles or answer questions given a passage, large language models (LLMs) can hallucinate details and respond with unsubstantiated answers that are inaccurate with respect to the input context. This paper describes a simple approach for detecting such **contextual hallucinations**. We hypothesize that contextual hallucinations are related to the extent to which an LLM attends to information in the provided context versus its own generations. Based on this intuition, we propose a simple hallucination detection model whose input features are given by the ratio of attention weights on the context versus newly generated tokens (for each attention head). We find that a linear classifier based on these {\\_}lookback ratio{\\_} features is as effective as a richer detector that utilizes the entire hidden states of an LLM or a text-based entailment model. The lookback ratio-based detector{---}**Lookback Lens**{---}is found to transfer across tasks and even models, allowing a detector that is trained on a 7B model to be applied (without retraining) to a larger 13B model. We further apply this detector to mitigate contextual hallucinations, and find that a simple classifier-guided decoding approach is able to reduce the amount of hallucination, for example by 9.6{\\%} in the XSum summarization task."}
{"Title": "Controllable Preference Optimization: Toward Controllable Multi-Objective Alignment", "Abstract": "Alignment in artificial intelligence pursues the consistency between model responses and human preferences as well as values. In practice, the multifaceted nature of human preferences inadvertently introduces what is known as the {''}alignment tax{''}{--}a compromise where enhancements in alignment within one objective (e.g., harmlessness) can diminish performance in others (e.g., helpfulness). However, existing alignment techniques are mostly unidirectional, leading to suboptimal trade-offs and poor flexibility over various objectives. To navigate this challenge, we argue the prominence of grounding LLMs with evident preferences. We introduce controllable preference optimization (CPO), which explicitly specifies preference scores for different objectives, thereby guiding the model to generate responses that meet the requirements. Our experimental analysis reveals that the aligned models can provide responses that match various preferences among the {''}3H{''} (helpfulness, honesty, harmlessness) desiderata. Furthermore, by introducing diverse data and alignment goals, we surpass baseline methods in aligning with single objectives, hence mitigating the impact of the alignment tax and achieving improvements in multi-objective alignment."}
{"Title": "Mitigating Matthew Effect: Multi-Hypergraph Boosted Multi-Interest Self-Supervised Learning for Conversational Recommendation", "Abstract": "The Matthew effect is a big challenge in Recommender Systems (RSs), where popular items tend to receive increasing attention, while less popular ones are often overlooked, perpetuating existing disparities. Although many existing methods attempt to mitigate Matthew effect in the static or quasi-static recommendation scenarios, such issue will be more pronounced as users engage with the system over time. To this end, we propose a novel framework, Multi-Hypergraph Boosted Multi-Interest Self-Supervised Learning for Conversational Recommendation (HiCore), aiming to address Matthew effect in the Conversational Recommender System (CRS) involving the dynamic user-system feedback loop. It devotes to learn multi-level user interests by building a set of hypergraphs (i.e., item-, entity-, word-oriented multiple-channel hypergraphs) to alleviate the Matthew effec. Extensive experiments on four CRS-based datasets showcase that HiCore attains a new state-of-the-art performance, underscoring its superiority in mitigating the Matthew effect effectively. Our code is available at https://github.com/zysensmile/HiCore."}
{"Title": "Advancing Event Causality Identification via Heuristic Semantic Dependency Inquiry Network", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Exploring Union and Intersection of Visual Regions for Generating Questions, Answers, and Distractors", "Abstract": "Multiple-choice visual question answering (VQA) is to automatically choose a correct answer from a set of choices after reading an image. Existing efforts have been devoted to a separate generation of an image-related question, a correct answer, or challenge distractors. By contrast, we turn to a holistic generation and optimization of questions, answers, and distractors (QADs) in this study. This integrated generation strategy eliminates the need for human curation and guarantees information consistency. Furthermore, we first propose to put the spotlight on different image regions to diversify QADs. Accordingly, a novel framework ReBo is formulated in this paper. ReBo cyclically generates each QAD based on a recurrent multimodal encoder, and each generation is focusing on a different area of the image compared to those already concerned by the previously generated QADs. In addition to traditional VQA comparisons with state-of-the-art approaches, we also validate the capability of ReBo in generating augmented data to benefit VQA models."}
{"Title": "UniFashion: A Unified Vision-Language Model for Multimodal Fashion Retrieval and Generation", "Abstract": "The fashion domain encompasses a variety of real-world multimodal tasks, including multimodal retrieval and multimodal generation. The rapid advancements in artificial intelligence generated content, particularly in technologies like large language models for text generation and diffusion models for visual generation, have sparked widespread research interest in applying these multimodal models in the fashion domain. However, tasks that use embeddings, such as image-to-text or text-to-image retrieval, have been largely ignored from this perspective due to the diverse nature of the multimodal fashion domain. And current research on multi-task single models lack focus on image generation. In this work, we present UniFashion, a unified framework that simultaneously tackles the challenges of multimodal generation and retrieval tasks within the fashion domain, integrating image generation with retrieval tasks and text generation tasks. UniFashion unifies embedding and generative tasks by integrating a diffusion model and LLM, enabling controllable and high-fidelity generation. Our model significantly outperforms previous single-task state-of-the-art models across diverse fashion tasks, and can be readily adapted to manage complex vision-language tasks. This work demonstrates the potential learning synergy between multimodal generation and retrieval, offering a promising direction for future research in the fashion domain."}
{"Title": "Tracking the perspectives of interacting language models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are capable of producing high quality information at unprecedented rates. As these models continue to entrench themselves in society, the content they produce will become increasingly pervasive in databases that are, in turn, incorporated into the pre-training data, fine-tuning data, retrieval data, etc. of other language models. In this paper we formalize the idea of a communication network of LLMs and introduce a method for representing the perspective of individual models within a collection of LLMs. Given these tools we systematically study information diffusion in the communication network of LLMs in various simulated settings."}
{"Title": "MAR: Matching-Augmented Reasoning for Enhancing Visual-based Entity Question Answering", "Abstract": "A multimodal large language model MLLMs may struggle with answering visual-based (personal) entity questions (VEQA), such as {''}who is A?{''} or {''}who is A that B is talking to?{''} for various reasons, e.g., the absence of the name of A in the caption or the inability of MLLMs to recognize A, particularly for less common entities. Furthermore, even if the MLLMs can identify A, it may refrain from answering due to privacy concerns. In this paper, we introduce a novel method called Matching-Augmented Reasoning (MAR) to enhance VEQA. Given a collection of visual objects with captions, MAR preprocesses each object individually, identifying faces, names, and their alignments within the object. It encodes this information and stores their vector representations in vector databases. When handling VEQA, MAR retrieves matching faces and names and organizes these entities into a matching graph. MAR then derives the answer to the query by reasoning over this matching graph. Extensive experiments show that MAR significantly improves VEQA compared with the state-of-the-art methods using MLLMs."}
{"Title": "Can Large Language Models Always Solve Easy Problems if They Can Solve Harder Ones?", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive capabilities, but still suffer from inconsistency issues (e.g. LLMs can react differently to disturbances like rephrasing or inconsequential order change). In addition to these inconsistencies, we also observe that LLMs, while capable of solving hard problems, can paradoxically fail at easier ones. To evaluate this hard-to-easy inconsistency, we develop the ConsisEval benchmark, where each entry comprises a pair of questions with a strict order of difficulty. Furthermore, we introduce the concept of consistency score to quantitatively measure this inconsistency and analyze the potential for improvement in consistency by relative consistency score. Based on comprehensive experiments across a variety of existing models, we find: (1) GPT-4 achieves the highest consistency score of 92.2{\\%} but is still inconsistent to specific questions due to distraction by redundant information, misinterpretation of questions, etc.; (2) models with stronger capabilities typically exhibit higher consistency, but exceptions also exist; (3) hard data enhances consistency for both fine-tuning and in-context learning. Our data and code will be publicly available on GitHub."}
{"Title": "Watch Every Step! LLM Agent Learning via Iterative Step-level Process Refinement", "Abstract": "Large language model agents have exhibited exceptional performance across a range of complex interactive tasks. Recent approaches have utilized tuning with expert trajectories to enhance agent performance, yet they primarily concentrate on outcome rewards, which may lead to errors or suboptimal actions due to the absence of process supervision signals. In this paper, we introduce the **I**terative step-level **P**rocess **R**efinement **(IPR)** framework, which provides detailed step-by-step guidance to enhance agent training. Specifically, we adopt the Monte Carlo method to estimate step-level rewards. During each iteration, the agent explores along the expert trajectory and generates new actions. These actions are then evaluated against the corresponding step of expert trajectory using step-level rewards. Such comparison helps identify discrepancies, yielding contrastive action pairs that serve as training data for the agent. Our experiments on three complex agent tasks demonstrate that our framework outperforms a variety of strong baselines. Moreover, our analytical finds highlight the effectiveness of IPR in augmenting action efficiency and its applicability to diverse models."}
{"Title": "Standardize: Aligning Language Models with Expert-Defined Standards for Content Generation", "Abstract": "Domain experts across engineering, healthcare, and education follow strict standards for producing quality content such as technical manuals, medication instructions, and children{'}s reading materials. However, current works in controllable text generation have yet to explore using these standards as references for control. Towards this end, we introduce Standardize, a retrieval-style in-context learning-based framework to guide large language models to align with expert-defined standards. Focusing on English language standards in the education domain as a use case, we consider the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR) and Common Core Standards (CCS) for the task of open-ended content generation. Our findings show that models can gain 45{\\%} to 100{\\%} increase in precise accuracy across open and commercial LLMs evaluated, demonstrating that the use of knowledge artifacts extracted from standards and integrating them in the generation process can effectively guide models to produce better standard-aligned content."}
{"Title": "Cross-domain NER with Generated Task-Oriented Knowledge: An Empirical Study from Information Density Perspective", "Abstract": "Cross-domain Named Entity Recognition (CDNER) is crucial for Knowledge Graph (KG) construction and natural language processing (NLP), enabling learning from source to target domains with limited data. Previous studies often rely on manually collected entity-relevant sentences from the web or attempt to bridge the gap between tokens and entity labels across domains. These approaches are time-consuming and inefficient, as these data are often weakly correlated with the target task and require extensive pre-training.To address these issues, we propose automatically generating task-oriented knowledge (GTOK) using large language models (LLMs), focusing on the reasoning process of entity extraction. Then, we employ task-oriented pre-training (TOPT) to facilitate domain adaptation. Additionally, current cross-domain NER methods often lack explicit explanations for their effectiveness. Therefore, we introduce the concept of information density to better evaluate the model{'}s effectiveness before performing entity recognition.We conduct systematic experiments and analyses to demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed approach and the validity of using information density for model evaluation."}
{"Title": "Glue pizza and eat rocks - Exploiting Vulnerabilities in Retrieval-Augmented Generative Models", "Abstract": "Retrieval-Augmented Generative (RAG) models enhance Large Language Models (LLMs) by integrating external knowledge bases, improving their performance in applications like fact-checking and information searching. In this paper, we demonstrate a security threat where adversaries can exploit the openness of these knowledge bases by injecting deceptive content into the retrieval database, intentionally changing the model{'}s behavior. This threat is critical as it mirrors real-world usage scenarios where RAG systems interact with publicly accessible knowledge bases, such as web scrapings and user-contributed data pools. To be more realistic, we target a realistic setting where the adversary has no knowledge of users{'} queries, knowledge base data, and the LLM parameters. We demonstrate that it is possible to exploit the model successfully through crafted content uploads with access to the retriever. Our findings emphasize an urgent need for security measures in the design and deployment of RAG systems to prevent potential manipulation and ensure the integrity of machine-generated content."}
{"Title": "Predicate Debiasing in Vision-Language Models Integration for Scene Graph Generation Enhancement", "Abstract": "Scene Graph Generation (SGG) provides basic language representation of visual scenes, requiring models to grasp complex and diverse semantics between objects. This complexity and diversity in SGG leads to underrepresentation, where parts of triplet labels are rare or even unseen during training, resulting in imprecise predictions. To tackle this, we propose integrating the pretrained Vision-language Models to enhance representation. However, due to the gap between pretraining and SGG, direct inference of pretrained VLMs on SGG leads to severe bias, which stems from the imbalanced predicates distribution in the pretraining language set. To alleviate the bias, we introduce a novel LM Estimation to approximate the unattainable predicates distribution. Finally, we ensemble the debiased VLMs with SGG models to enhance the representation, where we design a certainty-aware indicator to score each sample and dynamically adjust the ensemble weights. Our training-free method effectively addresses the predicates bias in pretrained VLMs, enhances SGG{'}s representation, and significantly improve the performance."}
{"Title": "SHIELD: Evaluation and Defense Strategies for Copyright Compliance in LLM Text Generation", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have transformed machine learning but raised significant legal concerns due to their potential to produce text that infringes on copyrights, resulting in several high-profile lawsuits. The legal landscape is struggling to keep pace with these rapid advancements, with ongoing debates about whether generated text might plagiarize copyrighted materials. Current LLMs may infringe on copyrights or overly restrict non-copyrighted texts, leading to these challenges: (i) the need for a comprehensive evaluation benchmark to assess copyright compliance from multiple aspects; (ii) evaluating robustness against safeguard bypassing attacks; and (iii) developing effective defenses targeted against the generation of copyrighted text.To tackle these challenges, we introduce a curated dataset to evaluate methods, test attack strategies, and propose a lightweight, real-time defense mechanism to prevent the generation of copyrighted text, ensuring the safe and lawful use of LLMs. Our experiments demonstrate that current LLMs frequently output copyrighted text, and that jailbreaking attacks can significantly increase the volume of copyrighted output. Our proposed defense mechanism substantially reduces the volume of copyrighted text generated by LLMs by effectively refusing malicious requests."}
{"Title": "MatchTime: Towards Automatic Soccer Game Commentary Generation", "Abstract": "Soccer is a globally popular sport with a vast audience, in this paper, we consider constructing an automatic soccer game commentary model to improve the audiences{'} viewing experience. In general, we make the following contributions: *First*, observing the prevalent video-text misalignment in existing datasets, we manually annotate timestamps for 49 matches, establishing a more robust benchmark for soccer game commentary generation, termed as *SN-Caption-test-align*; *Second*, we propose a multi-modal temporal alignment pipeline to automatically correct and filter the existing dataset at scale, creating a higher-quality soccer game commentary dataset for training, denoted as *MatchTime*; *Third*, based on our curated dataset, we train an automatic commentary generation model, named **MatchVoice**. Extensive experiments and ablation studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of our alignment pipeline, and training model on the curated datasets achieves state-of-the-art performance for commentary generation, showcasing that better alignment can lead to significant performance improvements in downstream tasks."}
{"Title": "Rethinking Token Reduction for State Space Models", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in State Space Models (SSMs) have attracted significant interest, particularly in models optimized for parallel training and handling long-range dependencies. Architectures like Mamba have scaled to billions of parameters with selective SSM. To facilitate broader applications using Mamba, exploring its efficiency is crucial. While token reduction techniques offer a straightforward post-training strategy, we find that applying existing methods directly to SSMs leads to substantial performance drops. Through insightful analysis, we identify the reasons for this failure and the limitations of current techniques. In response, we propose a tailored, unified post-training token reduction method for SSMs. Our approach integrates token importance and similarity, thus taking advantage of both pruning and merging, to devise a fine-grained intra-layer token reduction strategy. Extensive experiments show that our method improves the average accuracy by 5.7{\\%} to 13.1{\\%} on six benchmarks with Mamba-2 compared to existing methods, while significantly reducing computational demands and memory requirements."}
{"Title": "Triad: A Framework Leveraging a Multi-Role LLM-based Agent to Solve Knowledge Base Question Answering", "Abstract": "Recent progress with LLM-based agents has shown promising results across various tasks. However, their use in answering questions from knowledge bases remains largely unexplored. Implementing a KBQA system using traditional methods is challenging due to the shortage of task-specific training data and the complexity of creating task-focused model structures. In this paper, we present Triad, a unified framework that utilizes an LLM-based agent with multiple roles for KBQA tasks. The agent is assigned three roles to tackle different KBQA subtasks: agent as a generalist for mastering various subtasks, as a decision maker for the selection of candidates, and as an advisor for answering questions with knowledge. Our KBQA framework is executed in four phases, involving the collaboration of the agent{'}s multiple roles. We evaluated the performance of our framework using three benchmark datasets, and the results show that our framework outperforms state-of-the-art systems on the LC-QuAD and YAGO-QA benchmarks, yielding F1 scores of 11.8{\\%} and 20.7{\\%}, respectively."}
{"Title": "MetaGPT: Merging Large Language Models Using Model Exclusive Task Arithmetic", "Abstract": "The advent of large language models (LLMs) like GPT-4 has catalyzed the exploration of multi-task learning (MTL), in which a single model demonstrates proficiency across diverse tasks. Task arithmetic has emerged as a cost-effective approach for MTL. It enables performance enhancement across multiple tasks by adding their corresponding task vectors to a pre-trained model. However, the current lack of a method that can simultaneously achieve optimal performance, computational efficiency, and data privacy limits their application to LLMs. In this paper, we propose \\textbf{M}odel \\textbf{E}xclusive \\textbf{T}ask \\textbf{A}rithmetic for merging \\textbf{GPT}-scale models (MetaGPT) which formalizes the objective of model merging into a multi-task learning framework, aiming to minimize the average loss difference between the merged model and each individual task model. Since data privacy limits the use of multi-task training data, we leverage LLMs{'} local linearity and task vectors{'} orthogonality to separate the data term and scaling coefficients term and derive a model-exclusive task arithmetic method. Our proposed MetaGPT is data-agnostic and bypasses the heavy search process, making it cost-effective and easy to implement for LLMs. Extensive experiments demonstrate that MetaGPT leads to improvement of task arithmetic and achieves state-of-the-art performance on multiple tasks."}
{"Title": "Event Causality Identification with Synthetic Control", "Abstract": "Event causality identification (ECI), a process that extracts causal relations between events from text, is crucial for distinguishing causation from correlation. Traditional approaches to ECI have primarily utilized linguistic patterns and multi-hop relational inference, risking false causality identification due to informal usage of causality and specious graphical inference. In this paper, we adopt the Rubin Causal Model to identify event causality: given two temporally ordered events, we see the first event as the treatment and the second one as the observed outcome. Determining their causality involves manipulating the treatment and estimating the resultant change in the likelihood of the outcome. Given that it is only possible to implement manipulation conceptually in the text domain, as a work-around, we try to find a twin for the protagonist from existing corpora. This twin should have identical life experiences with the protagonist before the treatment but undergoes an intervention of treatment. However, the practical difficulty of locating such a match limits its feasibility. Addressing this issue, we use the synthetic control method to generate such a twin{'} from relevant historical data, leveraging text embedding synthesis and inversion techniques. This approach allows us to identify causal relations more robustly than previous methods, including GPT-4, which is demonstrated on a causality benchmark, COPES-hard."}
{"Title": "Retrieved Sequence Augmentation for Protein Representation Learning", "Abstract": "Protein Language Models traditionally depend on Multiple Sequence Alignments (MSA) to incorporate evolutionary knowledge. However, MSA-based approaches suffer from substantial computational overhead and generally underperform in generalizing to de novo proteins. This study reevaluates the role of MSA, proposing it as a retrieval augmentation method and questioning the necessity of sequence alignment. We show that a simple alternative, Retrieved Sequence Augmentation (RSA), can enhance protein representation learning without the need for alignment and cumbersome preprocessing. RSA surpasses MSA Transformer by an average of 5{\\%} in both structural and property prediction tasks while being 373 times faster. Additionally, RSA demonstrates enhanced transferability for predicting de novo proteins. This methodology addresses a critical need for efficiency in protein prediction and can be rapidly employed to identify homologous sequences, improve representation learning, and enhance the capacity of Large Language Models to interpret protein structures."}
{"Title": "HELPD: Mitigating Hallucination of LVLMs by Hierarchical Feedback Learning with Vision-enhanced Penalty Decoding", "Abstract": "Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) have shown remarkable performance on many visual-language tasks. However, these models still suffer from \\textit{multimodal hallucination}, which means the generation of objects or content that violates the images. Many existing work detects hallucination by directly judging whether an object exists in an image, overlooking the association between the object and semantics. To address this issue, we propose Hierarchical Feedback Learning with Vision-enhanced Penalty Decoding (HELPD). This framework incorporates hallucination feedback at both object and sentence semantic levels. Remarkably, even with a marginal degree of training, this approach can alleviate over 15{\\%} of hallucination. Simultaneously, HELPD penalizes the output logits according to the image attention window to avoid being overly affected by generated text. HELPD can be seamlessly integrated with any LVLMs. Our experiments demonstrate that the proposed framework yields favorable results across multiple hallucination benchmarks. It effectively mitigates hallucination for different LVLMs and concurrently improves their text generation quality."}
{"Title": "TopViewRS: Vision-Language Models as Top-View Spatial Reasoners", "Abstract": "Top-view perspective denotes a typical way in which humans read and reason over different types of maps, and it is vital for localization and navigation of humans as well as of {`}non-human{'} agents, such as the ones backed by large Vision-Language Models (VLMs). Nonetheless, spatial reasoning capabilities of modern VLMs in this setup remain unattested and underexplored. In this work, we study their capability to understand and reason over spatial relations from the top view. The focus on top view also enables controlled evaluations at different granularity of spatial reasoning; we clearly disentangle different abilities (e.g., recognizing particular objects versus understanding their relative positions). We introduce the TopViewRS (Top-View Reasoning in Space) dataset, consisting of 11,384 multiple-choice questions with either realistic or semantic top-view map as visual input. We then use it to study and evaluate VLMs across 4 perception and reasoning tasks with different levels of complexity. Evaluation of 10 representative open- and closed-source VLMs reveals the gap of more than 50{\\%} compared to average human performance, and it is even lower than the random baseline in some cases. Although additional experiments show that Chain-of-Thought reasoning can boost model capabilities by 5.82{\\%} on average, the overall performance of VLMs remains limited. Our findings underscore the critical need for enhanced model capability in top-view spatial reasoning and set a foundation for further research towards human-level proficiency of VLMs in real-world multimodal tasks."}
{"Title": "DA^3: A Distribution-Aware Adversarial Attack against Language Models", "Abstract": "Language models can be manipulated by adversarial attacks, which introduce subtle perturbations to input data. While recent attack methods can achieve a relatively high attack success rate (ASR), we{'}ve observed that the generated adversarial examples have a different data distribution compared with the original examples. Specifically, these adversarial examples exhibit reduced confidence levels and greater divergence from the training data distribution. Consequently, they are easy to detect using straightforward detection methods, diminishing the efficacy of such attacks. To address this issue, we propose a Distribution-Aware Adversarial Attack (DA$^3$) method. DA$^3$ considers the distribution shifts of adversarial examples to improve attacks{'} effectiveness under detection methods. We further design a novel evaluation metric, the Non-detectable Attack Success Rate (NASR), which integrates both ASR and detectability for the attack task. We conduct experiments on four widely used datasets to validate the attack effectiveness and transferability of adversarial examples generated by DA$^3$ against both the white-box BERT-base and RoBERTa-base models and the black-box LLaMA2-7b model."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Psychological Safety of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "In this work, we designed unbiased prompts to systematically evaluate the psychological safety of large language models (LLMs). First, we tested five different LLMs by using two personality tests: Short Dark Triad (SD-3) and Big Five Inventory (BFI). All models scored higher than the human average on SD-3, suggesting a relatively darker personality pattern. Despite being instruction fine-tuned with safety metrics to reduce toxicity, InstructGPT, GPT-3.5, and GPT-4 still showed dark personality patterns; these models scored higher than self-supervised GPT-3 on the Machiavellianism and narcissism traits on SD-3. Then, we evaluated the LLMs in the GPT series by using well-being tests to study the impact of fine-tuning with more training data. We observed a continuous increase in the well-being scores of GPT models. Following these observations, we showed that fine-tuning Llama-2-chat-7B with responses from BFI using direct preference optimization could effectively reduce the psychological toxicity of the model. Based on the findings, we recommended the application of systematic and comprehensive psychological metrics to further evaluate and improve the safety of LLMs."}
{"Title": "An Effective Deployment of Diffusion LM for Data Augmentation in Low-Resource Sentiment Classification", "Abstract": "Sentiment classification (SC) often suffers from low-resource challenges such as domain-specific contexts, imbalanced label distributions, and few-shot scenarios. The potential of the diffusion language model (LM) for textual data augmentation (DA) remains unexplored, moreover, textual DA methods struggle to balance the diversity and consistency of new samples. Most DA methods either perform logical modifications or rephrase less important tokens in the original sequence with the language model. In the context of SC, strong emotional tokens could act critically on the sentiment of the whole sequence. Therefore, contrary to rephrasing less important context, we propose DiffusionCLS to leverage a diffusion LM to capture in-domain knowledge and generate pseudo samples by reconstructing strong label-related tokens. This approach ensures a balance between consistency and diversity, avoiding the introduction of noise and augmenting crucial features of datasets. DiffusionCLS also comprises a Noise-Resistant Training objective to help the model generalize. Experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in various low-resource scenarios including domain-specific and domain-general problems. Ablation studies confirm the effectiveness of our framework{'}s modules, and visualization studies highlight optimal deployment conditions, reinforcing our conclusions."}
{"Title": "Self-Bootstrapped Visual-Language Model for Knowledge Selection and Question Answering", "Abstract": "While large pre-trained visual-language models have shown promising results on traditional visual question answering benchmarks, it is still challenging for them to answer complex VQA problems which requires diverse world knowledge. Motivated by the research of retrieval-augmented generation in the field of natural language processing, we use Dense Passage Retrieval (DPR) to retrieve related knowledge to help the model answer questions. However, DPR conduct retrieving in natural language space, which may not ensure comprehensive acquisition of image information. Thus, the retrieved knowledge is not truly conducive to helping answer the question, affecting the performance of the overall system. To address this issue, we propose a novel framework that leverages the visual-language model to select the key knowledge retrieved by DPR and answer questions. The framework consists of two modules: Selector and Answerer, where both are initialized by the MLLM and parameter-efficiently finetuned by self-bootstrapping: find key knowledge in the retrieved knowledge documents using the Selector, and then use them to finetune the Answerer to predict answers; obtain the pseudo-labels of key knowledge documents based on the predictions of the Answerer and weak supervision labels, and then finetune the Selector to select key knowledge; repeat. Our framework significantly enhances the performance of the baseline on the challenging open-domain Knowledge-based VQA benchmark, OK-VQA, achieving a state-of-the-art accuracy of 62.83{\\%}."}
{"Title": "PsFuture: A Pseudo-Future-based Zero-Shot Adaptive Policy for Simultaneous Machine Translation", "Abstract": "Simultaneous Machine Translation (SiMT) requires target tokens to be generated in real-time as streaming source tokens are consumed. Traditional approaches to SiMT typically require sophisticated architectures and extensive parameter configurations for training adaptive read/write policies, which in turn demand considerable computational power and memory. We propose PsFuture, the first zero-shot adaptive read/write policy for SiMT, enabling the translation model to independently determine read/write actions without the necessity for additional training. Furthermore, we introduce a novel training strategy, Prefix-to-Full (P2F), specifically tailored to adjust offline translation models for SiMT applications, exploiting the advantages of the bidirectional attention mechanism inherent in offline models. Experiments across multiple benchmarks demonstrate that our zero-shot policy attains performance on par with strong baselines and the P2F method can further enhance performance, achieving an outstanding trade-off between translation quality and latency."}
{"Title": "TinyChart: Efficient Chart Understanding with Program-of-Thoughts Learning and Visual Token Merging", "Abstract": "Charts are important for presenting and explaining complex data relationships. Recently, multimodal large language models (MLLMs) have shown remarkable capabilities in chart understanding. However, the sheer size of these models limits their use in resource-constrained environments. In this paper, we present TinyChart, an efficient MLLM for chart understanding with only 3B parameters. TinyChart overcomes two key challenges in efficient chart understanding: (1) reduce the burden of learning numerical computations through Program-of-Thoughts (PoT) learning, which trains the model to generate Python programs for numerical calculations, and (2) reduce lengthy vision feature sequences through Vision Token Merging, which gradually merges most similar vision tokens. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our 3B TinyChart achieves SOTA performance on various chart understanding benchmarks including ChartQA, Chart-to-Text, Chart-to-Table, OpenCQA, and ChartX. It outperforms several chart-understanding MLLMs with up to 13B parameters, and close-sourced MLLM GPT-4V on ChartQA, with higher throughput during inference due to a smaller model scale and more efficient vision encoding."}
{"Title": "Do We Need Language-Specific Fact-Checking Models? The Case of Chinese", "Abstract": "This paper investigates the potential benefits of language-specific fact-checking models, focusing on the case of Chinese using CHEF dataset. To better reflect real-world fact-checking, we first develop a novel Chinese document-level evidence retriever, achieving state-of-the-art performance. We then demonstrate the limitations of translation-based methods and multilingual language models, highlighting the need for language-specific systems. To better analyze token-level biases in different systems, we construct an adversarial dataset based on the CHEF dataset, where each instance has a large word overlap with the original one but holds the opposite veracity label. Experimental results on the CHEF dataset and our adversarial dataset show that our proposed method outperforms translation-based methods and multilingual language models and is more robust toward biases, emphasizing the importance of language-specific fact-checking systems."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Advanced Visual Reasoning Ability of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in Vision-Language (VL) research have sparked new benchmarks for complex visual reasoning, challenging models{'} advanced reasoning ability. Traditional Vision-Language models (VLMs) perform well in visual perception tasks while struggling with complex reasoning scenarios. Conversely, Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate robust text reasoning capabilities; however, they lack visual acuity. To bridge this gap, we propose **C**omplex **V**isual **R**easoning **L**arge **L**anguage **M**odels (**CVR-LLM**), capitalizing on VLMs{'} visual perception proficiency and LLMs{'} extensive reasoning capability. Unlike recent multimodal large language models (MLLMs) that require a projection layer, our approach transforms images into detailed, context-aware descriptions using an iterative self-refinement loop and leverages LLMs{'} text knowledge for accurate predictions without extra training. We also introduce a novel multi-modal in-context learning (ICL) methodology to enhance LLMs{'} contextual understanding and reasoning. Additionally, we introduce Chain-of-Comparison (CoC), a step-by-step comparison technique enabling contrasting various aspects of predictions. Our CVR-LLM presents the first comprehensive study across a wide array of complex visual reasoning tasks and achieves SOTA performance among all."}
{"Title": "CMD: a framework for Context-aware Model self-Detoxification", "Abstract": "Text detoxification aims to minimize the risk of language models producing toxic content. Existing detoxification methods of directly constraining the model output or further training the model on the non-toxic corpus fail to achieve a decent balance between detoxification effectiveness and generation quality. This issue stems from the neglect of constrain imposed by the context since language models are designed to generate output that closely matches the context while detoxification methods endeavor to ensure the safety of the output even if it semantically deviates from the context. In view of this, we introduce a Context-aware Model self-Detoxification (CMD) framework that pays attention to both the context and the detoxification process, i.e., first detoxifying the context and then making the language model generate along the safe context. Specifically, CMD framework involves two phases: utilizing language models to synthesize data and applying these data for training. We also introduce a toxic contrastive loss that encourages the model generation away from the negative toxic samples. Experiments on various LLMs have verified the effectiveness of our MSD framework, which can yield the best performance compared to baselines."}
{"Title": "Embedding and Gradient Say Wrong: A White-Box Method for Hallucination Detection", "Abstract": "In recent years, large language models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable success in the field of natural language generation. Compared to previous small-scale models, they are capable of generating fluent output based on the provided prefix or prompt. However, one critical challenge {---} the *hallucination* problem {---} remains to be resolved. Generally, the community refers to the undetected hallucination scenario where the LLMs generate text unrelated to the input text or facts. In this study, we intend to model the distributional distance between the regular conditional output and the unconditional output, which is generated without a given input text. Based upon Taylor Expansion for this distance at the output probability space, our approach manages to leverage the embedding and first-order gradient information. The resulting approach is plug-and-play that can be easily adapted to any autoregressive LLM. On the hallucination benchmarks HADES and other datasets, our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance."}
{"Title": "TCSinger: Zero-Shot Singing Voice Synthesis with Style Transfer and Multi-Level Style Control", "Abstract": "Zero-shot singing voice synthesis (SVS) with style transfer and style control aims to generate high-quality singing voices with unseen timbres and styles (including singing method, emotion, rhythm, technique, and pronunciation) from audio and text prompts. However, the multifaceted nature of singing styles poses a significant challenge for effective modeling, transfer, and control. Furthermore, current SVS models often fail to generate singing voices rich in stylistic nuances for unseen singers. To address these challenges, we introduce TCSinger, the first zero-shot SVS model for style transfer across cross-lingual speech and singing styles, along with multi-level style control. Specifically, TCSinger proposes three primary modules: 1) the clustering style encoder employs a clustering vector quantization model to stably condense style information into a compact latent space; 2) the Style and Duration Language Model (S{\\&}D-LM) concurrently predicts style information and phoneme duration, which benefits both; 3) the style adaptive decoder uses a novel mel-style adaptive normalization method to generate singing voices with enhanced details. Experimental results show that TCSinger outperforms all baseline models in synthesis quality, singer similarity, and style controllability across various tasks, including zero-shot style transfer, multi-level style control, cross-lingual style transfer, and speech-to-singing style transfer."}
{"Title": "Be Helpful but Don't Talk too Much - Enhancing Helpfulness in Conversations through Relevance in Multi-Turn Emotional Support", "Abstract": "For a conversation to help and support, speakers should maintain an {``}effect-effort{''} tradeoff. As outlined in the gist of {``}Cognitive Relevance Principle{''}, helpful speakers should optimize the {``}cognitive relevance{''} through maximizing the {``}cognitive effects{''} and minimizing the {``}processing effort{''} imposed on listeners. Although preference learning methods have given rise a boon of studies in pursuit of{``}effect-optimization{''}, none have delved into the critical {``}effort-optimiazation{''} to fully cultivate the awareness of {``}optimal relevance{''} into thecognition of conversation agents. To address this gap, we integrate the {``}Cognitive Relevance Principle{''} into emotional support agents in the environment of multi-turn conversation. The results demonstrate a significant and robust improvement against the baseline systems with respect to response quality, human-likedness and supportivenss. This study offers compelling evidence for the effectiveness of the {``}Relevance Principle{''} in generating human-like, helpful, and harmless emotional support conversations. The source code will be available at https://github.com/CN-Eyetk/VLESA-ORL.git"}
{"Title": "Aligning Language Models to Explicitly Handle Ambiguity", "Abstract": "In interactions between users and language model agents, user utterances frequently exhibit ellipsis (omission of words or phrases) or imprecision (lack of exactness) to prioritize efficiency. This can lead to varying interpretations of the same input based on different assumptions or background knowledge. It is thus crucial for agents to adeptly handle the inherent ambiguity in queries to ensure reliability. However, even state-of-the-art large language models (LLMs) still face challenges in such scenarios, primarily due to the following hurdles: (1) LLMs are not explicitly trained to deal with ambiguous utterances; (2) the degree of ambiguity perceived by the LLMs may vary depending on the possessed knowledge. To address these issues, we propose Alignment with Perceived Ambiguity (APA), a novel pipeline that aligns LLMs to manage ambiguous queries by leveraging their own assessment of ambiguity (i.e., perceived ambiguity). Experimental results on question-answering datasets demonstrate that APA empowers LLMs to explicitly detect and manage ambiguous queries while retaining the ability to answer clear questions. Furthermore, our finding proves that APA excels beyond training with gold-standard labels, especially in out-of-distribution scenarios. The data and code are available at https://github.com/heyjoonkim/APA."}
{"Title": "Tag-grounded Visual Instruction Tuning with Retrieval Augmentation", "Abstract": "Despite recent advances in the general visual instruction-following ability of Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs), they still struggle with critical problems when required to provide a precise and detailed response to a visual instruction: (1) failure to identify novel objects or entities, (2) mention of non-existent objects, and (3) neglect of object{'}s attributed details. Intuitive solutions include improving the size and quality of data or using larger foundation models. They show effectiveness in mitigating these issues, but at an expensive cost of collecting a vast amount of new data and introducing a significantly larger model. Standing at the intersection of these approaches, we examine the three object-oriented problems from the perspective of the image-to-text mapping process by the multimodal connector. In this paper, we first identify the limitations of multimodal connectors stemming from insufficient training data. Driven by this, we propose to enhance the mapping with retrieval-augmented tag tokens, which contain rich object-aware information such as object names and attributes. With our Tag-grounded visual instruction tuning with retrieval Augmentation (TUNA), we outperform baselines that share the same language model and training data on 12 benchmarks. Furthermore, we show the zero-shot capability of TUNA when provided with specific datastores."}
{"Title": "GLaPE: Gold Label-agnostic Prompt Evaluation for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Despite the rapid progress of large language models (LLMs), their task performance remains sensitive to prompt design. Recent studies have explored leveraging the LLM itself as an optimizer to identify optimal prompts that maximize task accuracy. However, when evaluating prompts, such approaches heavily rely on elusive manually annotated gold labels to calculate task accuracy for each candidate prompt, which hinders its generality. To overcome the limitation, this work proposes GLaPE, a gold label-agnostic prompt evaluation method to alleviate dependence on gold labels. GLaPE is composed of two critical aspects: self-consistency evaluation of a single prompt and mutual-consistency refinement across multiple prompts. Experimental results on 8 widely-recognized reasoning tasks demonstrate that GLaPE can produce more effective prompts, achieving performance comparable to those derived from manually annotated gold labels. Analysis shows that GLaPE provides reliable evaluations aligned with accuracy, even in the absence of gold labels. Code is publicly available at **Anonymous**."}
{"Title": "Decoding the Echoes of Vision from fMRI: Memory Disentangling for Past Semantic Information", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Optimizing Code Retrieval: High-Quality and Scalable Dataset Annotation through Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Code retrieval aims to identify code from extensive codebases that semantically aligns with a given query code snippet. Collecting a broad and high-quality set of query and code pairs is crucial to the success of this task. However, existing data collection methods struggle to effectively balance scalability and annotation quality. In this paper, we first analyze the factors influencing the quality of function annotations generated by Large Language Models (LLMs). We find that the invocation of intra-repository functions and third-party APIs plays a significant role. Building on this insight, we propose a novel annotation method that enhances the annotation context by incorporating the content of functions called within the repository and information on third-party API functionalities. Additionally, we integrate LLMs with a novel sorting method to address the multi-level function call relationships within repositories. Furthermore, by applying our proposed method across a range of repositories, we have developed the Query4Code dataset. The quality of this synthesized dataset is validated through both model training and human evaluation, demonstrating high-quality annotations. Moreover, cost analysis confirms the scalability of our annotation method."}
{"Title": "Towards Difficulty-Agnostic Efficient Transfer Learning for Vision-Language Models", "Abstract": "Vision-language models (VLMs) like CLIP have demonstrated remarkable applicability across a variety of downstream tasks, including zero-shot image classification. Recently, the use of prompts or adapters for efficient transfer learning (ETL) has gained significant attention for effectively adapting to downstream tasks. However, previous studies have overlooked the challenge of varying transfer difficulty of downstream tasks. In this paper, we empirically analyze how each ETL method behaves with respect to transfer difficulty. Our observations indicate that utilizing vision prompts and text adapters is crucial for adaptability and generalizability in domains with high difficulty. Also, by applying an adaptive ensemble approach that integrates task-adapted VLMs with pre-trained VLMs and strategically leverages more general knowledge in low-difficulty and less in high-difficulty domains, we consistently enhance performance across both types of domains. Based on these observations, we propose an adaptive ensemble method that combines visual prompts and text adapters with pre-trained VLMs, tailored by transfer difficulty, to achieve optimal performance for any target domain. Upon experimenting with extensive benchmarks, our method consistently outperforms all baselines, particularly on unseen tasks, demonstrating its effectiveness."}
{"Title": "Advancing Process Verification for Large Language Models via Tree-Based Preference Learning", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable potential in handling complex reasoning tasks by generating step-by-step rationales. Some methods have proven effective in boosting accuracy by introducing extra verifiers to assess these paths. However, existing verifiers, typically trained on binary-labeled reasoning paths, fail to fully utilize the relative merits of intermediate steps, thereby limiting the effectiveness of the feedback provided. To overcome this limitation, we propose Tree-based Preference Learning Verifier (Tree-PLV), a novel approach that constructs reasoning trees via a best-first search algorithm and collects step-level paired data for preference training. Compared to traditional binary classification, step-level preferences more finely capture the nuances between reasoning steps, allowing for a more precise evaluation of the complete reasoning path. We empirically evaluate Tree-PLV across a range of arithmetic and commonsense reasoning tasks, where it significantly outperforms existing benchmarks. For instance, Tree-PLV achieved substantial performance gains over the Mistral-7B self-consistency baseline on GSM8K (67.55{\\%} \u00e2\u0086\u0092 82.79{\\%}), MATH (17.00{\\%} \u00e2\u0086\u0092 26.80{\\%}), CSQA (68.14{\\%} \u00e2\u0086\u0092 72.97{\\%}), and StrategyQA (82.86{\\%} \u00e2\u0086\u0092 83.25{\\%}). Additionally, our study explores the appropriate granularity for applying preference learning, revealing that step-level guidance provides feedback that better aligns with the evaluation of the reasoning process."}
{"Title": "An Inversion Attack Against Obfuscated Embedding Matrix in Language Model Inference", "Abstract": "With the rapidly-growing deployment of large language model (LLM) inference services, privacy concerns have arisen regarding to the user input data. Recent studies are exploring transforming user inputs to obfuscated embedded vectors, so that the data will not be eavesdropped by service provides. However, in this paper we show that again, without a solid and deliberate security design and analysis, such embedded vector obfuscation failed to protect users{'} privacy. We demonstrate the conclusion via conducting a novel inversion attack called Element-wise Differential Nearest Neighbor (EDNN) on the glide-reflection proposed in (CITATION), and the result showed that the original user input text can be 100{\\%} recovered from the obfuscated embedded vectors. We further analyze security requirements on embedding obfuscation and present several remedies to our proposed attack."}
{"Title": "VideoScore: Building Automatic Metrics to Simulate Fine-grained Human Feedback for Video Generation", "Abstract": "The recent years have witnessed great advances in video generation. However, the development of automatic video metrics is lagging significantly behind. None of the existing metric is able to provide reliable scores over generated videos. The main barrier is the lack of large-scale human-annotated dataset. In this paper, we release VideoFeedback, the first large-scale dataset containing human-provided multi-aspect score over 37.6K synthesized videos from 11 existing video generative models. We train VideoScore (initialized from Mantis)based on VideoFeedback to enable automatic video quality assessment. Experiments show that the Spearman{'}s correlation betweenVideoScore and humans can reach 77.1 on VideoFeedback-test, beating the prior best metrics by about 50 points. Further result onother held-out EvalCrafter, GenAI-Bench, and VBench show that VideoScore has consistently much higher correlation with humanjudges than other metrics. Due to these results, we believe VideoScore can serve as a great proxy for human raters to (1) rate different video models to track progress (2) simulate fine-grained human feedback in Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) to improve current video generation models."}
{"Title": "LogicAsker: Evaluating and Improving the Logical Reasoning Ability of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "We introduce LogicAsker, a novel approach for evaluating and enhancing the logical reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT and GPT-4. Despite LLMs{'} prowess in tasks like writing assistance, code generation, and machine translation, assessing their ability to reason has been challenging. Traditional evaluations often prioritize accuracy on downstream tasks over direct assessments of reasoning processes. LogicAsker addresses this gap by employing a set of atomic reasoning skills grounded in propositional and predicate logic to systematically examine and improve the reasoning prowess of LLMs. Our methodology reveals significant gaps in LLMs{'} learning of logical rules, with identified reasoning failures ranging from 29{\\%} to 90{\\%} across different models. Moreover, we leverage these findings to construct targeted demonstration examples and fine-tune data, notably enhancing logical reasoning in models like GPT-4o by up to 5{\\%}. To our knowledge, this is the first effort to utilize test case outcomes to effectively refine LLMs{'} formal reasoning capabilities. We make our code, data, and results publicly available(https://github.com/yxwan123/LogicAsker) to facilitate further research and replication of our findings."}
{"Title": "Integrating Structural Semantic Knowledge for Enhanced Information Extraction Pre-training", "Abstract": "Information Extraction (IE), aiming to extract structured information from unstructured natural language texts, can significantly benefit from pre-trained language models. However, existing pre-training methods solely focus on exploiting the textual knowledge, relying extensively on annotated large-scale datasets, which is labor-intensive and thus limits the scalability and versatility of the resulting models. To address these issues, we propose SKIE, a novel pre-training framework tailored for IE that integrates structural semantic knowledge via contrastive learning, effectively alleviating the annotation burden. Specifically, SKIE utilizes Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) as a low-cost supervision source to boost model performance without human intervention. By enhancing the topology of AMR graphs, SKIE derives high-quality cohesive subgraphs as additional training samples, providing diverse multi-level structural semantic knowledge. Furthermore, SKIE refines the graph encoder to better capture cohesive information and edge relation information, thereby improving the pre-training efficacy. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that SKIE outperforms state-of-the-art baselines across multiple IE tasks and showcases exceptional performance in few-shot and zero-shot settings."}
{"Title": "FuseGen: PLM Fusion for Data-generation based Zero-shot Learning", "Abstract": "Data-generation based zero-shot learning, although effective in training Small Task-specific Models (STMs) via synthetic datasets generated by Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs), is often limited by the low quality of such synthetic datasets. Previous solutions have primarily focused on single PLM settings, where synthetic datasets are typically restricted to specific sub-spaces and often deviate from real-world distributions, leading to severe distribution bias. To mitigate such bias, we propose FuseGen, a novel data-generation based zero-shot learning framework that introduces a new criteria for subset selection from synthetic datasets via utilizing multiple PLMs and trained STMs. The chosen subset provides in-context feedback to each PLM, enhancing dataset quality through iterative data generation. Trained STMs are then used for sample re-weighting as well, further improving data quality. Extensive experiments across diverse tasks demonstrate that FuseGen substantially outperforms existing methods, highly effective in boosting STM performance in a PLM-agnostic way. The code is available at https://github.com/LindaLydia/FuseGen."}
{"Title": "I Need Help! Evaluating LLM's Ability to Ask for Users' Support: A Case Study on Text-to-SQL Generation", "Abstract": "This study explores the proactive ability of LLMs to seek user support. We propose metrics to evaluate the trade-off between performance improvements and user burden, and investigate whether LLMs can determine when to request help under varying information availability. Our experiments show that without external feedback, many LLMs struggle to recognize their need for user support. The findings highlight the importance of external signals and provide insights for future research on improving support-seeking strategies. Source code: https://github.com/appier-research/i-need-help"}
{"Title": "Oddballs and Misfits: Detecting Implicit Abuse in Which Identity Groups are Depicted as Deviating from the Norm", "Abstract": "We address the task of detecting abusive sentences in which identity groups are depicted as deviating from the norm (e.g. Gays sprinkle flour over their gardens for good luck). These abusive utterances need not be stereotypes or negative in sentiment. We introduce the first dataset for this task. It is created via crowdsourcing and includes 7 identity groups. We also report on classification experiments."}
{"Title": "By My Eyes: Grounding Multimodal Large Language Models with Sensor Data via Visual Prompting", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional abilities across various domains. However, utilizing LLMs for ubiquitous sensing applications remains challenging as existing text-prompt methods show significant performance degradation when handling long sensor data sequences. In this paper, we propose a visual prompting approach for sensor data using multimodal LLMs (MLLMs). Specifically, we design a visual prompt that directs MLLMs to utilize visualized sensor data alongside descriptions of the target sensory task. Additionally, we introduce a visualization generator that automates the creation of optimal visualizations tailored to a given sensory task, eliminating the need for prior task-specific knowledge. We evaluated our approach on nine sensory tasks involving four sensing modalities, achieving an average of 10{\\%} higher accuracy compared to text-based prompts and reducing token costs by 15.8 times. Our findings highlight the effectiveness and cost-efficiency of using visual prompts with MLLMs for various sensory tasks. The source code is available at https://github.com/diamond264/ByMyEyes."}
{"Title": "Prefixing Attention Sinks can Mitigate Activation Outliers for Large Language Model Quantization", "Abstract": "Despite recent advances in LLM quantization, activation quantization remains to be challenging due to the activation outliers. Conventional remedies, e.g., mixing precisions for different channels, introduce extra overhead and reduce the speedup. In this work, we develop a simple yet effective strategy to facilitate per-tensor activation quantization by preventing the generation of problematic tokens. Precisely, we propose a method to find a set of key-value cache, coined {\\_}CushionCache{\\_}, which mitigates outliers in subsequent tokens when inserted as a prefix. CushionCache works in two steps: First, we greedily search for a prompt token sequence that minimizes the maximum activation values in subsequent tokens. Then, we further tune the token cache to regularize the activations of subsequent tokens to be more quantization-friendly. The proposed method successfully addresses activation outliers of LLMs, providing a substantial performance boost for per-tensor activation quantization methods. We thoroughly evaluate our method over a wide range of models and benchmarks and find that it significantly surpasses the established baseline of per-tensor W8A8 quantization and can be seamlessly integrated with the recent activation quantization method."}
{"Title": "CHIQ: Contextual History Enhancement for Improving Query Rewriting in Conversational Search", "Abstract": "In this paper, we study how open-source large language models (LLMs) can be effectively deployed for improving query rewriting in conversational search, especially for ambiguous queries. We introduce CHIQ, a two-step method that leverages the capabilities of LLMs to resolve ambiguities in the conversation history before query rewriting. This approach contrasts with prior studies that predominantly use closed-source LLMs to directly generate search queries from conversation history. We demonstrate on five well-established benchmarks that CHIQ leads to state-of-the-art results across most settings, showing highly competitive performances with systems leveraging closed-source LLMs. Our study provides a first step towards leveraging open-source LLMs in conversational search, as a competitive alternative to the prevailing reliance on commercial LLMs. Data, models, and source code will be publicly available upon acceptance at https://github.com/fengranMark/CHIQ."}
{"Title": "Towards Low-Resource Harmful Meme Detection with LMM Agents", "Abstract": "The proliferation of Internet memes in the age of social media necessitates effective identification of harmful ones. Due to the dynamic nature of memes, existing data-driven models may struggle in low-resource scenarios where only a few labeled examples are available. In this paper, we propose an agency-driven framework for low-resource harmful meme detection, employing both outward and inward analysis with few-shot annotated samples. Inspired by the powerful capacity of Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) on multimodal reasoning, we first retrieve relative memes with annotations to leverage label information as auxiliary signals for the LMM agent. Then, we elicit knowledge-revising behavior within the LMM agent to derive well-generalized insights into meme harmfulness. By combining these strategies, our approach enables dialectical reasoning over intricate and implicit harm-indicative patterns. Extensive experiments conducted on three meme datasets demonstrate that our proposed approach achieves superior performance than state-of-the-art methods on the low-resource harmful meme detection task."}
{"Title": "VIVA: A Benchmark for Vision-Grounded Decision-Making with Human Values", "Abstract": "This paper introduces VIVA, a benchmark for VIsion-grounded decision-making driven by human VA. While most large vision-language models (VLMs) focus on physical-level skills, our work is the first to examine their multimodal capabilities in leveraging human values to make decisions under a vision-depicted situation. VIVA contains 1,062 images depicting diverse real-world situations and the manually annotated decisions grounded in them. Given an image there, the model should select the most appropriate action to address the situation and provide the relevant human values and reason underlying the decision. Extensive experiments based on VIVA show the limitation of VLMs in using human values to make multimodal decisions. Further analyses indicate the potential benefits of exploiting action consequences and predicted human values."}
{"Title": "Direct Multi-Turn Preference Optimization for Language Agents", "Abstract": "Adapting Large Language Models (LLMs) for agent tasks is critical in developing language agents. Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) is a promising technique for this adaptation with the alleviation of compounding errors, offering a means to directly optimize Reinforcement Learning (RL) objectives. However, applying DPO to multi-turn tasks presents challenges due to the inability to cancel the partition function. Overcoming this obstacle involves making the partition function independent of the current state and addressing length disparities between preferred and dis-preferred trajectories. In this light, we replace the policy constraint with the state-action occupancy measure constraint in the RL objective and add length normalization to the Bradley-Terry model, yielding a novel loss function named DMPO for multi-turn agent tasks with theoretical explanations. Extensive experiments on three multi-turn agent task datasets confirm the effectiveness and superiority of the DMPO loss."}
{"Title": "Self-Refine Instruction-Tuning for Aligning Reasoning in Language Models", "Abstract": "The alignment of reasoning abilities between smaller and larger Language Models are largely conducted via supervised fine-tuning using demonstrations generated from robust Large Language Models (LLMs). Although these approaches deliver more performant models, they do not show sufficiently strong generalization ability as the training only relies on the provided demonstrations.In this paper, we propose the Self-refine Instruction-tuning method that elicits Smaller Language Models to self-improve their abilities.Our approach is based on a two-stage process, where reasoning abilities are first transferred between LLMs and Small Language Models (SLMs) via Instruction-tuning on synthetic demonstrations provided by LLMs, and then the instructed models self-improve their abilities through preference optimization strategies.In particular, the second phase operates refinement heuristics based on Direct Preference Optimization, where the SLMs are elicited to deliver a series of reasoning paths by automatically sampling the generated responses and providing rewards using ground truths from the LLMs.Results obtained on commonsense and math reasoning tasks show that this approach consistently outperforms Instruction-tuning in both in-domain and out-domain scenarios, aligning the reasoning abilities of Smaller and Larger language models."}
{"Title": "In Search of the Long-Tail: Systematic Generation of Long-Tail Inferential Knowledge via Logical Rule Guided Search", "Abstract": "To effectively use large language models (LLMs) for real-world queries, it is imperative that they generalize to the long-tail distribution, i.e. rare examples where models exhibit low confidence. In this work, we take the first step towards evaluating LLMs in the long-tail distribution of inferential knowledge. We exemplify long-tail evaluation on the Natural Language Inference task. First, we introduce Logic-Induced-Knowledge-Search (LINK), a systematic long-tail data generation framework, to obtain factually-correct yet long-tail inferential statements. LINK uses variable-wise prompting grounded on symbolic rules to seek low-confidence statements while ensuring factual correctness. We then use LINK to curate Logic-Induced-Long-Tail (LINT), a large-scale long-tail inferential knowledge dataset that contains 108K statements spanning four domains. We evaluate popular LLMs on LINT; we find that state-of-the-art LLMs show significant performance drop (21{\\%} relative drop for GPT4) on long-tail data as compared to on head distribution data, and smaller models show even more generalization weakness. These results further underscore the necessity of long-tail evaluation in developing generalizable LLMs."}
{"Title": "AutoScraper: A Progressive Understanding Web Agent for Web Scraper Generation", "Abstract": "Web scraping is a powerful technique that extracts data from websites, enabling automated data collection, enhancing data analysis capabilities, and minimizing manual data entry efforts. Existing methods, wrappers-based methods suffer from limited adaptability and scalability when faced with a new website, while language agents, empowered by large language models (LLMs), exhibit poor reusability in diverse web environments. In this work, we introduce the paradigm of generating web scrapers with LLMs and propose AutoScraper, a two-stage framework that can handle diverse and changing web environments more efficiently. AutoScraper leverages the hierarchical structure of HTML and similarity across different web pages for generating web scrapers. Besides, we propose a new executability metric for better measuring the performance of web scraper generation tasks. We conduct comprehensive experiments with multiple LLMs and demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework. Our work is now open-source."}
{"Title": "Backward Lens: Projecting Language Model Gradients into the Vocabulary Space", "Abstract": "Understanding how Transformer-based Language Models (LMs) learn and recall information is a key goal of the deep learning community. Recent interpretability methods project weights and hidden states obtained from the forward pass to the models{'} vocabularies, helping to uncover how information flows within LMs. In this work, we extend this methodology to LMs{'} backward pass and gradients. We first prove that a gradient matrix can be cast as a low-rank linear combination of its forward and backward passes{'} inputs. We then develop methods to project these gradients into vocabulary items and explore the mechanics of how new information is stored in the LMs{'} neurons."}
{"Title": "Selective Vision is the Challenge for Visual Reasoning: A Benchmark for Visual Argument Understanding", "Abstract": "Visual arguments, often used in advertising or social causes, rely on images to persuade viewers to do or believe something. Understanding these arguments requires selective vision: only specific visual stimuli within an image are relevant to the argument, and relevance can only be understood within the context of a broader argumentative structure. While visual arguments are readily appreciated by human audiences, we ask: are today{'}s AI capable of similar understanding?We present VisArgs, a dataset of 1,611 images annotated with 5,112 visual premises (with regions), 5,574 commonsense premises, and reasoning trees connecting them into structured arguments. We propose three tasks for evaluating visual argument understanding: premise localization, premise identification, and conclusion deduction.Experiments show that 1) machines struggle to capture visual cues: GPT-4-O achieved 78.5{\\%} accuracy, while humans reached 98.0{\\%}. Models also performed 19.5{\\%} worse when distinguishing between irrelevant objects within the image compared to external objects. 2) Providing relevant visual premises improved model performance significantly."}
{"Title": "Can visual language models resolve textual ambiguity with visual cues? Let visual puns tell you!", "Abstract": "Humans possess multimodal literacy, allowing them to actively integrate information from various modalities to form reasoning. Faced with challenges like lexical ambiguity in text, we supplement this with other modalities, such as thumbnail images or textbook illustrations. Is it possible for machines to achieve a similar multimodal understanding capability?In response, we present Understanding Pun with Image Explanations (UNPIE), a novel benchmark designed to assess the impact of multimodal inputs in resolving lexical ambiguities. Puns serve as the ideal subject for this evaluation due to their intrinsic ambiguity. Our dataset includes 1,000 puns, each accompanied by an image that explains both meanings. We pose three multimodal challenges with the annotations to assess different aspects of multimodal literacy; Pun Grounding, Disambiguation, and Reconstruction. The results indicate that various Socratic Models and Visual-Language Models improve over the text-only models when given visual context, particularly as the complexity of the tasks increases."}
{"Title": "Reusing Transferable Weight Increments for Low-resource Style Generation", "Abstract": "Text style transfer (TST) is crucial in natural language processing, aiming to endow text with a new style without altering its meaning. In real-world scenarios, not all styles have abundant resources. This work introduces TWIST (reusing Transferable Weight Increments for Style Text generation), a novel framework to mitigate data scarcity by utilizing style features in weight increments to transfer low-resource styles effectively. During target style learning, we derive knowledge via a specially designed weight pool and initialize the parameters for the unseen style. To enhance the effectiveness of merging, the target style weight increments are often merged from multiple source style weight increments through singular vectors. Considering the diversity of styles, we also designed a multi-key memory network that simultaneously focuses on task- and instance-level information to derive the most relevant weight increments. Results from multiple style transfer datasets show that TWIST demonstrates remarkable performance across different backbones, achieving particularly effective results in low-resource scenarios."}
{"Title": "Large Language Model as an Assignment Evaluator: Insights, Feedback, and Challenges in a 1000+ Student Course", "Abstract": "Using large language models (LLMs) for automatic evaluation has become an important evaluation method in NLP research. However, it is unclear whether these LLM-based evaluators can be effectively applied in real-world classrooms to assess student assignments. This empirical report shares how we use GPT-4 as an automatic assignment evaluator in a university course with over 1000 students. Based on student responses, we found that LLM-based assignment evaluators are generally acceptable to students when they have free access to these tools. However, students also noted that the LLM sometimes fails to adhere to the evaluation instructions, resulting in unreasonable assessments. Additionally, we observed that students can easily manipulate the LLM to output specific strings, allowing them to achieve high scores without meeting the assignment rubric. Based on student feedback and our experience, we offer several recommendations for effectively integrating LLMs into future classroom evaluations. Our observation also highlights potential directions for improving LLM-based evaluators, including their instruction-following ability and vulnerability to prompt hacking."}
{"Title": "Seemingly Plausible Distractors in Multi-Hop Reasoning: Are Large Language Models Attentive Readers?", "Abstract": "State-of-the-art Large Language Models (LLMs) are accredited with an increasing number of different capabilities, ranging from reading comprehension over advanced mathematical and reasoning skills to possessing scientific knowledge. In this paper we focus on multi-hop reasoning{---}the ability to identify and integrate information from multiple textual sources.Given the concerns with the presence of simplifying cues in existing multi-hop reasoning benchmarks, which allow models to circumvent the reasoning requirement, we set out to investigate whether LLMs are prone to exploiting such simplifying cues. We find evidence that they indeed circumvent the requirement to perform multi-hop reasoning, but they do so in more subtle ways than what was reported about their fine-tuned pre-trained language model (PLM) predecessors. We propose a challenging multi-hop reasoning benchmark by generating seemingly plausible multi-hop reasoning chains that ultimately lead to incorrect answers. We evaluate multiple open and proprietary state-of-the-art LLMs and show that their multi-hop reasoning performance is affected, as indicated by up to 45{\\%} relative decrease in F1 score when presented with such seemingly plausible alternatives. We also find that{---}while LLMs tend to ignore misleading lexical cues{---}misleading reasoning paths indeed present a significant challenge. The code and data are made available at https://github.com/zawedcvg/Are-Large-Language-Models-Attentive-Readers"}
{"Title": "Instruction Pre-Training: Language Models are Supervised Multitask Learners", "Abstract": "Unsupervised multitask pre-training has been the critical method behind the recent success of language models (LMs). However, supervised multitask learning still holds significant promise, as scaling it in the post-training stage trends towards better generalization. In this paper, we explore supervised multitask pre-training by proposing Instruction Pre-training, a framework that scalably augments massive raw corpora with instruction-response pairs to pre-train LMs. The instruction-response pairs are generated by an efficient instruction synthesizer built on open-source models. In our experiments, we synthesize 200M instruction response pairs covering 40+ task categories to verify the effectiveness of Instruction Pre-training. In pre-training from scratch, Instruction Pre-training not only consistently enhances pre-trained base models but also benefits more from further instruction tuning. In continual pre-training, Instruction Pre-training enables Llama3-8B to be comparable to or even outperform Llama3-70B. Our model, code, and data are available at https://github.com/microsoft/LMOps."}
{"Title": "LEMoE: Advanced Mixture of Experts Adaptor for Lifelong Model Editing of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) require continual knowledge updates to stay abreast of the ever-changing world facts, prompting the formulation of lifelong model editing task. While recent years have witnessed the development of various techniques for single and batch editing, these methods either fail to apply or perform sub-optimally when faced with lifelong editing. In this paper, we introduce LEMoE, an advanced Mixture of Experts (MoE) adaptor for lifelong model editing. We first analyze the factors influencing the effectiveness of conventional MoE adaptor in lifelong editing, including catastrophic forgetting, inconsistent routing and order sensitivity. Based on these insights, we propose a tailored module insertion method to achieve lifelong editing, incorporating a novel KV anchor routing to enhance routing consistency between training and inference stage, along with a concise yet effective clustering-based editing order planning. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in lifelong editing, surpassing previous model editing techniques while maintaining outstanding performance in batch editing task. Our code will be available."}
{"Title": "Collaborative Performance Prediction for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Comprehensively understanding and accurately predicting the performance of large language models across diverse downstream tasks has emerged as a pivotal challenge in NLP research. The pioneering scaling law on downstream works demonstrated intrinsic similarities within model families and utilized such similarities for performance prediction. However, they tend to overlook the similarities between model families and only consider design factors listed in the original scaling law. To overcome these limitations, we introduce a novel framework, Collaborative Performance Prediction (CPP), which significantly enhances prediction accuracy by leveraging the historical performance of various models on downstream tasks and other design factors for both model and task. We also collect a collaborative data sourced from online platforms containing both historical performance and additional design factors. With the support of the collaborative data, CPP not only surpasses traditional scaling laws in predicting the performance of scaled LLMs but also facilitates a detailed analysis of factor importance, an area previously overlooked."}
{"Title": "Surveying the Dead Minds: Historical-Psychological Text Analysis with Contextualized Construct Representation (CCR) for Classical Chinese", "Abstract": "In this work, we develop a pipeline for historical-psychological text analysis in classical Chinese. Humans have produced texts in various languages for thousands of years; however, most of the computational literature is focused on contemporary languages and corpora. The emerging field of historical psychology relies on computational techniques to extract aspects of psychology from historical corpora using new methods developed in natural language processing (NLP). The present pipeline, called Contextualized Construct Representations (CCR), combines expert knowledge in psychometrics (i.e., psychological surveys) with text representations generated via Transformer-based language models to measure psychological constructs such as traditionalism, norm strength, and collectivism in classical Chinese corpora. Considering the scarcity of available data, we propose an indirect supervised contrastive learning approach and build the first Chinese historical psychology corpus (C-HI-PSY) to fine-tune pre-trained models. We evaluate the pipeline to demonstrate its superior performance compared with other approaches. The CCR method outperforms word-embedding-based approaches across all of our tasks and exceeds prompting with GPT-4 in most tasks. Finally, we benchmark the pipeline against objective, external data to further verify its validity."}
{"Title": "Knowledge Verification to Nip Hallucination in the Bud", "Abstract": "While large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional performance across various tasks following human alignment, they may still generate responses that sound plausible but contradict factual knowledge, a phenomenon known as hallucination. In this paper, we demonstrate the feasibility of mitigating hallucinations by verifying and minimizing the inconsistency between external knowledge present in the alignment data and the intrinsic knowledge embedded within foundation LLMs. Specifically, we propose a novel approach called Knowledge Consistent Alignment (KCA), which employs a well-aligned LLM to automatically formulate assessments based on external knowledge to evaluate the knowledge boundaries of foundation LLMs. To address knowledge inconsistencies in the alignment data, KCA implements several specific strategies to deal with these data instances. We demonstrate the superior efficacy of KCA in reducing hallucinations across six benchmarks, utilizing foundation LLMs of varying backbones and scales. This confirms the effectiveness of mitigating hallucinations by reducing knowledge inconsistency. Our code, model weights, and data are openly accessible at \\url{https://github.com/fanqiwan/KCA}."}
{"Title": "QUITE: Quantifying Uncertainty in Natural Language Text in Bayesian Reasoning Scenarios", "Abstract": "Reasoning is key to many decision making processes. It requires consolidating a set of rule-like premises that are often associated with degrees of uncertainty and observations to draw conclusions. In this work, we address both the case where premises are specified as numeric probabilistic rules and situations in which humans state their estimates using words expressing degrees of certainty. Existing probabilistic reasoning datasets simplify the task, e.g., by requiring the model to only rank textual alternatives, by including only binary random variables, or by making use of a limited set of templates that result in less varied text.In this work, we present QUITE, a question answering dataset of real-world Bayesian reasoning scenarios with categorical random variables and complex relationships. QUITE provides high-quality natural language verbalizations of premises together with evidence statements and expects the answer to a question in the form of an estimated probability. We conduct an extensive set of experiments, finding that logic-based models outperform out-of-the-box large language models on all reasoning types (causal, evidential, and explaining-away). Our results provide evidence that neuro-symbolic models are a promising direction for improving complex reasoning. We release QUITE and code for training and experiments on Github."}
{"Title": "African or European Swallow? Benchmarking Large Vision-Language Models for Fine-Grained Object Classification", "Abstract": "Recent Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) demonstrate impressive abilities on numerous image understanding and reasoning tasks. The task of fine-grained object classification (e.g., distinction between \\textit{animal species}), however, has been probed insufficiently, despite its downstream importance. We fill this evaluation gap by creating FOCI (\\textbf{F}ine-grained \\textbf{O}bject \\textbf{C}lass\\textbf{I}fication), a difficult multiple-choice benchmark for fine-grained object classification, from existing object classification datasets: (1) multiple-choice avoids ambiguous answers associated with casting classification as open-ended QA task; (2) we retain classification difficulty by mining negative labels with a CLIP model. FOCI complements five popular classification datasets with four domain-specific subsets from ImageNet-21k. We benchmark 12 public LVLMs on and show that it tests for a \\textit{complementary skill} to established image understanding and reasoning benchmarks. Crucially, CLIP models exhibit dramatically better performance than LVLMs. Since the image encoders of LVLMs come from these CLIP models, this points to inadequate alignment for fine-grained object distinction between the encoder and the LLM and warrants (pre)training data with more fine-grained annotation. We release our code at \\url{ANONYMIZED}."}
{"Title": "Whispers that Shake Foundations: Analyzing and Mitigating False Premise Hallucinations in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown impressive capabilities but still suffer from the issue of hallucinations. A significant type of this issue is the false premise hallucination, which we define as the phenomenon when LLMs generate hallucinated text when confronted with false premise questions. In this paper, we perform a comprehensive analysis of the false premise hallucination and elucidate its internal working mechanism: a small subset of attention heads (which we designate as false premise heads) disturb the knowledge extraction process, leading to the occurrence of false premise hallucination. Based on our analysis, we propose \\textbf{FAITH} (\\textbf{F}alse premise \\textbf{A}ttention head constra\\textbf{I}ining for mi\\textbf{T}igating \\textbf{H}allucinations), a novel and effective method to mitigate false premise hallucinations. It constrains the false premise attention heads during the model inference process. Impressively, extensive experiments demonstrate that constraining only approximately 1{\\%} of the attention heads in the model yields a notable increase of nearly 20{\\%} of model performance."}
{"Title": "To Word Senses and Beyond: Inducing Concepts with Contextualized Language Models", "Abstract": "Polysemy and synonymy are two crucial interrelated facets of lexicalambiguity. While both phenomena are widely documented in lexical resources and have been studied extensively in NLP,leading to dedicated systems, they are often being consideredindependently in practictal problems. While many tasks dealing with polysemy (e.g. Word SenseDisambiguiation or Induction) highlight the role of word{'}s senses,the study of synonymy is rooted in the study of concepts, i.e. meaningsshared across the lexicon. In this paper, we introduce ConceptInduction, the unsupervised task of learning a soft clustering amongwords that defines a set of concepts directly from data. This taskgeneralizes Word Sense Induction. We propose a bi-levelapproach to Concept Induction that leverages both a locallemma-centric view and a global cross-lexicon view to induceconcepts. We evaluate the obtained clustering on SemCor{'}s annotateddata and obtain good performance (BCubed F1 above0.60). We find that the local and the global levels are mutuallybeneficial to induce concepts and also senses in our setting. Finally,we create static embeddings representing our induced concepts and usethem on the Word-in-Context task, obtaining competitive performancewith the State-of-the-Art."}
{"Title": "ASETF: A Novel Method for Jailbreak Attack on LLMs through Translate Suffix Embeddings", "Abstract": "The safety defense methods of Large language models (LLMs) stays limited because the dangerous prompts are manually curated to just few known attack types, which fails to keep pace with emerging varieties. Recent studies found that attaching suffixes to harmful instructions can hack the defense of LLMs and lead to dangerous outputs. However, similar to traditional text adversarial attacks, this approach, while effective, is limited by the challenge of the discrete tokens. This gradient based discrete optimization attack requires over 100,000 LLM calls, and due to the unreadable of adversarial suffixes, it can be relatively easily penetrated by common defense methods such as perplexity filters.To cope with this challenge, in this paper, we propose an Adversarial Suffix Embedding Translation Framework (ASETF), aimed at transforming continuous adversarial suffix embeddings into coherent and understandable text. This method greatly reduces the computational overhead during the attack process and helps to automatically generate multiple adversarial samples, which can be used as data to strengthen LLM{'}s security defense. Experimental evaluations were conducted on Llama2, Vicuna, and other prominent LLMs, employing harmful directives sourced from the Advbench dataset.The results indicate that our method significantly reduces the computation time of adversarial suffixes and achieves a much better attack success rate than existing techniques, while significantly enhancing the textual fluency of the prompts. In addition, our approach can be generalized into a broader method for generating transferable adversarial suffixes that can successfully attack multiple LLMs, even black-box LLMs, such as ChatGPT and Gemini."}
{"Title": "An Electoral Approach to Diversify LLM-based Multi-Agent Collective Decision-Making", "Abstract": "Modern large language models (LLMs) have exhibited cooperative synergy on complex task-solving, and collective decision-making (CDM) is a pivotal component in LLM-based multi-agent collaboration frameworks. Our survey on 52 recent such systems uncovers a severe lack of diversity, with a heavy reliance on dictatorial and plurality voting for CDM. Through the lens of social choice theory, we scrutinize widely-adopted CDM methods and identify their limitations. To enrich current landscape of LLM-based CDM, we present GEDI, an electoral CDM module that incorporates various ordinal preferential voting mechanisms. Our empirical case study across three benchmarks shows that the integration of certain CDM methods can markedly improve the reasoning capabilities and robustness of some leading LLMs, all without requiring intricate system designs. Additionally, we find that some CDM mechanisms generate positive synergies even with as few as three agents. The voting-based methods also demonstrate robustness against single points of failure, as well as diversity in terms of hit-rate@k and subject-wise impacts."}
{"Title": "Does Object Grounding Really Reduce Hallucination of Large Vision-Language Models?", "Abstract": "Large vision-language models (LVLMs) have recently dramatically pushed the state of the art in image captioning and many image understanding tasks (e.g., visual question answering). LVLMs, however, often \\textit{hallucinate} and produce captions that mention concepts that cannot be found in the image. These hallucinations erode the trustworthiness of LVLMs and are arguably among the main obstacles to their ubiquitous adoption. Recent work suggests that addition of grounding objectives{---}those that explicitly align image regions or objects to text spans{---}reduces the amount of LVLM hallucination. Although intuitive, this claim is not empirically justified as the reduction effects have been established, we argue, with flawed evaluation protocols that (i) rely on data (i.e., MSCOCO) that has been extensively used in LVLM training and (ii) measure hallucination via question answering rather than open-ended caption generation.In this work, in contrast, we offer the first systematic analysis of the effect of fine-grained object grounding on LVLM hallucination under an evaluation protocol that more realistically captures LVLM hallucination in open generation. Our extensive experiments over three backbone LLMs reveal that grounding objectives have little to no effect on object hallucination in open caption generation."}
{"Title": "Take Off the Training Wheels! Progressive In-Context Learning for Effective Alignment", "Abstract": "Recent studies have explored the working mechanisms of In-Context Learning (ICL). However, they mainly focus on classification and simple generation tasks, limiting their broader application to more complex generation tasks in practice. To address this gap, we investigate the impact of demonstrations on token representations within the practical alignment tasks. We find that the transformer embeds the task function learned from demonstrations into the separator token representation, which plays an important role in the generation of prior response tokens. Once the prior response tokens are determined, the demonstrations become redundant. Motivated by this finding, we propose an efficient Progressive In-Context Alignment (PICA) method consisting of two stages. In the first few-shot stage, the model generates several prior response tokens via standard ICL while concurrently extracting the ICL vector that stores the task function from the separator token representation. In the following zero-shot stage, this ICL vector guides the model to generate responses without further demonstrations. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our PICA not only surpasses vanilla ICL but also achieves comparable performance to other alignment tuning methods. The proposed training-free method reduces the time cost (e.g., 5.45{\\mbox{$\\times$}}) with improved alignment performance (e.g., 6.57+). Consequently, our work highlights the application of ICL for alignment and calls for a deeper understanding of ICL for complex generations. The code will be available at https://github.com/HITsz-TMG/PICA."}
{"Title": "MoDULA: Mixture of Domain-Specific and Universal LoRA for Multi-Task Learning", "Abstract": "The growing demand for larger-scale models in the development of Large Language Models (LLMs) poses challenges for efficient training within limited computational resources. Traditional fine-tuning methods often exhibit instability in multi-task learning and rely heavily on extensive training resources. Here, we propose MoDULA (Mixture of Domain-Specific and Universal LoRA), a novel Parameter Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) Mixture-of-Expert (MoE) paradigm for improved fine-tuning and parameter efficiency in multi-task learning. The paradigm effectively improves the multi-task capability of the model by training universal experts, domain-specific experts, and routers separately. MoDULA-Res is a new method within the MoDULA paradigm, which maintains the model{'}s general capability by connecting universal and task-specific experts through residual connections. The experimental results demonstrate that the overall performance of the MoDULA-Flan and MoDULA-Res methods surpasses that of existing fine-tuning methods on various LLMs. Notably, MoDULA-Res achieves more significant performance improvements in multiple tasks while reducing training costs by over 80{\\%} without losing general capability. Moreover, MoDULA displays flexible pluggability, allowing for the efficient addition of new tasks without retraining existing experts from scratch. This progressive training paradigm circumvents data balancing issues, enhancing training efficiency and model stability. Overall, MoDULA provides a scalable, cost-effective solution for fine-tuning LLMs with enhanced parameter efficiency and generalization capability."}
{"Title": "Message Passing on Semantic-Anchor-Graphs for Fine-grained Emotion Representation Learning and Classification", "Abstract": "Emotion classification has wide applications in education, robotics, virtual reality, etc. However, identifying subtle differences between fine-grained emotion categories remains challenging. Current methods typically aggregate numerous token embeddings of a sentence into a single vector, which, while being an efficient compressor, may not fully capture complex semantic and temporal distributions. To solve this problem, we propose SEmantic ANchor Graph Neural Networks (SEAN-GNN) for fine-grained emotion classification. It learns a group of representative, multi-faceted semantic anchors in the token embedding space: using these anchors as a global reference, any sentence can be projected onto them to form a {``}semantic-anchor graph{''}, with node attributes and edge weights quantifying the semantic and temporal information respectively. The graph structure is well aligned across sentences and, importantly, allows for generating comprehensive emotion representations regarding $K$ different anchors. Message passing on this graph can further integrate and refine the learned features. Empirically, SEAN-GNN can generate meaningful semantic anchors and discriminative graph patterns for different emotion, with promising classification results on 6 popular benchmark datasets against state-of-the-arts."}
{"Title": "PhiloGPT: A Philology-Oriented Large Language Model for Ancient Chinese Manuscripts with Dunhuang as Case Study", "Abstract": "Philology, the study of ancient manuscripts, demands years of professional training in ex-tensive knowledge memorization and manual textual retrieval. Despite these requirements align closely with strengths of recent successful Large Language Models (LLMs), the scarcity of high-quality, specialized training data has hindered direct applications. To bridge this gap, we curated the PhiloCorpus-ZH, a rich collec-tion of ancient Chinese texts spanning a millen-nium with 30 diverse topics, including firsthand folk copies. This corpus facilitated the develop-ment of PhiloGPT, the first LLM tailored for discovering ancient Chinese manuscripts. To effectively tackle complex philological tasks like restoration, attribution, and linguistic anal-ysis, we introduced the PhiloCoP framework. Modeled on the analytical patterns of philol-ogists, PhiloCoP enhances LLM{'}s handling of historical linguistic peculiarities such as phonetic loans, polysemy, and syntactic inver-sions. We further integrated these tasks into the PhiloBenchmark, establishing a new standard for evaluating ancient Chinese LLMs address-ing philology tasks. Deploying PhiloGPT in practical scenarios has enabled Dunhuang spe-cialists to resolve philology tasks, such as iden-tifying duplication of copied text and assisting archaeologists with text completion, demon-strating its potential in real-world applications."}
{"Title": "Alignment-Enhanced Decoding: Defending Jailbreaks via Token-Level Adaptive Refining of Probability Distributions", "Abstract": "Large language models are susceptible to jailbreak attacks, which can result in the generation of harmful content. While prior defenses mitigate these risks by perturbing or inspecting inputs, they ignore competing objectives, the underlying cause of alignment failures. In this paper, we propose Alignment-Enhanced Decoding (AED), a novel defense that employs adaptive decoding to address the root causes of jailbreak issues. We first define the Competitive Index to quantify alignment failures and utilize feedback from self-evaluation to compute post-alignment logits. Then, AED adaptively combines Competitive Index and post-alignment logits with the original logits to obtain harmless and helpful distributions. Consequently, our method enhances safety alignment while maintaining helpfulness. We conduct experiments across five models and four common jailbreaks, with the results validating the effectiveness of our approach."}
{"Title": "MiniConGTS: A Near Ultimate Minimalist Contrastive Grid Tagging Scheme for Aspect Sentiment Triplet Extraction", "Abstract": "Aspect Sentiment Triplet Extraction (ASTE) aims to co-extract the sentiment triplets in a given corpus. Existing approaches within the pretraining-finetuning paradigm tend to either meticulously craft complex tagging schemes and classification heads, or incorporate external semantic augmentation to enhance performance. In this study, we, for the first time, re-evaluate the redundancy in tagging schemes and the internal enhancement in pretrained representations. We propose a method to improve and utilize pretrained representations by integrating a minimalist tagging scheme and a novel token-level contrastive learning strategy. The proposed approach demonstrates comparable or superior performance compared to state-of-the-art techniques while featuring a more compact design and reduced computational overhead. Additionally, we are the first to formally evaluate GPT-4{'}s performance in few-shot learning and Chain-of-Thought scenarios for this task. The results demonstrate that the pretraining-finetuning paradigm remains highly effective even in the era of large language models."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Large Language Models via Linguistic Profiling", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) undergo extensive evaluation against various benchmarks collected in established leaderboards to assess their performance across multiple tasks. However, to the best of our knowledge, there is a lack of comprehensive studies evaluating these models{'} linguistic abilities independent of specific tasks. In this paper, we introduce a novel evaluation methodology designed to test LLMs{'} sentence generation abilities under specific linguistic constraints. Drawing on the {`}linguistic profiling{'} approach, we rigorously investigate the extent to which five LLMs of varying sizes, tested in both zero- and few-shot scenarios, effectively adhere to (morpho)syntactic constraints. Our findings shed light on the linguistic proficiency of LLMs, revealing both their capabilities and limitations in generating linguistically-constrained sentences."}
{"Title": "With Ears to See and Eyes to Hear: Sound Symbolism Experiments with Multimodal Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) and Vision Language Models (VLMs) have demonstrated aptitude as potential substitutes for human participants in experiments testing psycholinguistic phenomena. However, an understudied question is to what extent models that only have access to vision and text modalities are able to implicitly understand sound-based phenomena via abstract reasoning from orthography and imagery alone. To investigate this, we analyse the ability of VLMs and LLMs to demonstrate sound symbolism (i.e., to recognise a non-arbitrary link between sounds and concepts) as well as their ability to {``}hear{''} via the interplay of the language and vision modules of open and closed-source multimodal models. We perform multiple experiments, including replicating the classic Kiki-Bouba and Mil-Mal shape and magnitude symbolism tasks and comparing human judgements of linguistic iconicity with that of LLMs. Our results show that VLMs demonstrate varying levels of agreement with human labels, and more task information may be required for VLMs versus their human counterparts for \\textit{in silico} experimentation. We additionally see through higher maximum agreement levels that Magnitude Symbolism is an easier pattern for VLMs to identify than Shape Symbolism, and that an understanding of linguistic iconicity is highly dependent on model size."}
{"Title": "KB-Plugin: A Plug-and-play Framework for Large Language Models to Induce Programs over Low-resourced Knowledge Bases", "Abstract": "Program induction (PI) has become a promising paradigm for using knowledge bases (KBs) to help large language models (LLMs) answer complex knowledge-intensive questions. Nonetheless, PI typically relies on a large number of parallel question-program pairs to make the LLM aware of the schema of a given KB, and is thus challenging for many low-resourced KBs that lack annotated data. To this end, we propose KB-Plugin, a plug-and-play framework that enables LLMs to induce programs over any low-resourced KB. Firstly, KB-Plugin adopts self-supervised learning to encode the detailed schema information of a given KB into a pluggable module, namely schema plugin. Secondly, KB-Plugin utilizes abundant annotated data from a rich-resourced KB to train another pluggable module, namely PI plugin, which can help the LLM extract question-relevant schema information from the schema plugin of any KB and utilize the information to induce programs over this KB. Experiments show that KB-Plugin outperforms SoTA low-resourced PI methods with 25x smaller backbone LLM on both large-scale and domain-specific KBs, and even approaches the performance of supervised methods."}
{"Title": "Understanding Higher-Order Correlations Among Semantic Components in Embeddings", "Abstract": "Independent Component Analysis (ICA) offers interpretable semantic components of embeddings.While ICA theory assumes that embeddings can be linearly decomposed into independent components, real-world data often do not satisfy this assumption. Consequently, non-independencies remain between the estimated components, which ICA cannot eliminate. We quantified these non-independencies using higher-order correlations and demonstrated that when the higher-order correlation between two components is large, it indicates a strong semantic association between them, along with many words sharing common meanings with both components. The entire structure of non-independencies was visualized using a maximum spanning tree of semantic components. These findings provide deeper insights into embeddings through ICA."}
{"Title": "DGLF: A Dual Graph-based Learning Framework for Multi-modal Sarcasm Detection", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Evaluating D-MERIT of Partial-annotation on Information Retrieval", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Verification and Refinement of Natural Language Explanations through LLM-Symbolic Theorem Proving", "Abstract": "Natural language explanations represent a proxy for evaluating explanation-based and multi-step Natural Language Inference (NLI) models. However, assessing the validity of explanations for NLI is challenging as it typically involves the crowd-sourcing of apposite datasets, a process that is time-consuming and prone to logical errors. To address existing limitations, this paper investigates the verification and refinement of natural language explanations through the integration of Large Language Models (LLMs) and Theorem Provers (TPs). Specifically, we present a neuro-symbolic framework, named Explanation-Refiner, that integrates TPs with LLMs to generate and formalise explanatory sentences and suggest potential inference strategies for NLI. In turn, the TP is employed to provide formal guarantees on the logical validity of the explanations and to generate feedback for subsequent improvements. We demonstrate how Explanation-Refiner can be jointly used to evaluate explanatory reasoning, autoformalisation, and error correction mechanisms of state-of-the-art LLMs as well as to automatically enhance the quality of explanations of variable complexity in different domains."}
{"Title": "Calibrating the Confidence of Large Language Models by Eliciting Fidelity", "Abstract": "Large language models optimized with techniques like RLHF have achieved good alignment in being helpful and harmless. However, post-alignment, these language models often exhibit overconfidence, where the expressed confidence does not accurately calibrate with their correctness rate. In this paper, we decompose the language model confidence into the \\textit{Uncertainty} about the question and the \\textit{Fidelity} to the answer generated by language models. Then, we propose a plug-and-play method, \\textit{UF Calibration}, to estimate the confidence of language models. Our method has shown good calibration performance by conducting experiments with 6 RLHF-LMs on four MCQA datasets. Moreover, we propose two novel metrics, IPR and CE, to evaluate the calibration of the model, and we have conducted a detailed discussion on \\textit{Truly Well-Calibrated Confidence} for large language models. Our method could serve as a strong baseline, and we hope that this work will provide some insights into the model confidence calibration."}
{"Title": "The Accuracy Paradox in RLHF: When Better Reward Models Don't Yield Better Language Models", "Abstract": "Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback significantly enhances Natural Language Processing by aligning language models with human expectations. A critical factor in this alignment is the strength of reward models used during training. This study explores whether stronger reward models invariably lead to better language models. In this paper, through experiments on relevance, factuality, and completeness tasks using the QA-FEEDBACK dataset and reward models based on Longformer, we uncover a surprising paradox: language models trained with moderately accurate reward models outperform those guided by highly accurate ones. This challenges the widely held belief that stronger reward models always lead to better language models, and opens up new avenues for future research into the key factors driving model performance and how to choose the most suitable reward models."}
{"Title": "How Hard is this Test Set? NLI Characterization by Exploiting Training Dynamics", "Abstract": "Natural Language Inference (NLI) evaluation is crucial for assessing language understanding models; however, popular datasets suffer from systematic spurious correlations that artificially inflate actual model performance. To address this, we propose a method for the automated creation of a challenging test set without relying on the manual construction of artificial and unrealistic examples. We categorize the test set of popular NLI datasets into three difficulty levels by leveraging methods that exploit training dynamics. This categorization significantly reduces spurious correlation measures, with examples labeled as having the highest difficulty showing markedly decreased performance and encompassing more realistic and diverse linguistic phenomena. When our characterization method is applied to the training set, models trained with only a fraction of the data achieve comparable performance to those trained on the full dataset, surpassing other dataset characterization techniques. Our research addresses limitations in NLI dataset construction, providing a more authentic evaluation of model performance with implications for diverse NLU applications."}
{"Title": "Zero-shot Cross-Lingual Transfer for Synthetic Data Generation in Grammatical Error Detection", "Abstract": "Grammatical Error Detection (GED) methods rely heavily on human annotated error corpora. However, these annotations are unavailable in many low-resource languages. In this paper, we investigate GED in this context. Leveraging the zero-shot cross-lingual transfer capabilities of multilingual pre-trained language models, we train a model using data from a diverse set of languages to generate synthetic errors in other languages. These synthetic error corpora are then used to train a GED model. Specifically we propose a two-stage fine-tuning pipeline where the GED model is first fine-tuned on multilingual synthetic data from target languages followed by fine-tuning on human-annotated GED corpora from source languages. This approach outperforms current state-of-the-art annotation-free GED methods. We also analyse the errors produced by our method and other strong baselines, finding that our approach produces errors that are more diverse and more similar to human errors."}
{"Title": "CUTE: Measuring LLMs' Understanding of Their Tokens", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) show remarkable performance on a wide variety of tasks. Most LLMs split text into multi-character tokens and process them as atomic units without direct access to individual characters. This raises the question: To what extent can LLMs learn orthographic information? To answer this, we propose a new benchmark, CUTE, which features a collection of tasks designed to test the orthographic knowledge of LLMs. We evaluate popular LLMs on CUTE, finding that most of them seem to know the spelling of their tokens, yet fail to use this information effectively to manipulate text, calling into question how much of this knowledge is generalizable."}
{"Title": "SEER: Self-Aligned Evidence Extraction for Retrieval-Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Recent studies in Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) have investigated extracting evidence from retrieved passages to reduce computational costs and enhance the final RAG performance, yet it remains challenging. Existing methods heavily rely on heuristic-based augmentation, encountering several issues: (1) Poor generalization due to hand-crafted context filtering; (2) Semantics deficiency due to rule-based context chunking; (3) Skewed length due to sentence-wise filter learning. To address these issues, we propose a model-based evidence extraction learning framework, SEER, optimizing a vanilla model as an evidence extractor with desired properties through self-aligned learning. Extensive experiments show that our method largely improves the final RAG performance, enhances the faithfulness, helpfulness, and conciseness of the extracted evidence, and reduces the evidence length by 9.25 times. The code will be available at https://github.com/HITsz-TMG/SEER."}
{"Title": "On the Role of Context in Reading Time Prediction", "Abstract": "We present a new perspective on how readers integrate context during real-time language comprehension. Our proposals build on surprisal theory, which posits that the processing effort of a linguistic unit (e.g., a word) is an affine function of its in-context information content. We first observe that surprisal is only one out of many potential ways that a contextual predictor can be derived from a language model. Another one is the pointwise mutual information (PMI) between a unit and its context, which turns out to yield the same predictive power as surprisal when controlling for unigram frequency. Moreover, both PMI and surprisal are correlated with frequency. This means that neither PMI nor surprisal contains information about context alone. In response to this, we propose a technique where we project surprisal onto the orthogonal complement of frequency, yielding a new contextual predictor that is uncorrelated with frequency. Our experiments show that the proportion of variance in reading times explained by context is a lot smaller when context is represented by the orthogonalized predictor. From an interpretability standpoint, this indicates that previous studies may have overstated the role that context has in predicting reading times."}
{"Title": "BC-Prover: Backward Chaining Prover for Formal Theorem Proving", "Abstract": "Despite the remarkable progress made by large language models in mathematical reasoning, interactive theorem proving in formal logic still remains a prominent challenge. Previous methods resort to neural models for proofstep generation and search. However, they suffer from exploring possible proofsteps empirically in a large search space. Moreover, they directly use a less rigorous informal proof for proofstep generation, neglecting the incomplete reasoning within. In this paper, we propose BC-Prover, a backward chaining framework guided by pseudo steps. Specifically, BC-Prover prioritizes pseudo steps to proofstep generation. The pseudo steps boost the proof construction in two aspects: (1) Backward Chaining that decomposes the proof into sub-goals for goal-oriented exploration. (2) Step Planning that makes a fine-grained planning to bridge the gap between informal and formal proofs. Experiments on the miniF2F benchmark show significant performance gains by our framework over the state-of-the-art approaches. Our framework is also compatible with existing provers and further improves their performance with the backward chaining technique."}
{"Title": "From Insights to Actions: The Impact of Interpretability and Analysis Research on NLP", "Abstract": "Interpretability and analysis (IA) research is a growing subfield within NLP with the goal of developing a deeper understanding of the behavior or inner workings of NLP systems and methods. Despite growing interest in the subfield, a criticism of this work is that it lacks actionable insights and therefore has little impact on NLP. In this paper, we seek to quantify the impact of IA research on the broader field of NLP. We approach this with a mixed-methods analysis of: (1) a citation graph of 185K+ papers built from all papers published at ACL and EMNLP conferences from 2018 to 2023, and their references and citations, and (2) a survey of 138 members of the NLP community. Our quantitative results show that IA work is well-cited outside of IA, and central in the NLP citation graph. Through qualitative analysis of survey responses and manual annotation of 556 papers, we find that NLP researchers build on findings from IA work and perceive it as important for progress in NLP, multiple subfields, and rely on its findings and terminology for their own work. Many novel methods are proposed based on IA findings and highly influenced by them, but highly influential non-IA work cites IA findings without being driven by them. We end by summarizing what is missing in IA work today and provide a call to action, to pave the way for a more impactful future of IA research."}
{"Title": "Autoregressive Pre-Training on Pixels and Texts", "Abstract": "The integration of visual and textual information represents a promising direction in the advancement of language models. In this paper, we explore the dual modality of language{---}both visual and textual{---}within an autoregressive framework, pre-trained on both document images and texts. Our method employs a multimodal training strategy, utilizing visual data through next patch prediction with a regression head and/or textual data through next token prediction with a classification head. We focus on understanding the interaction between these two modalities and their combined impact on model performance. Our extensive evaluation across a wide range of benchmarks shows that incorporating both visual and textual data significantly improves the performance of pixel-based language models. Remarkably, we find that a unidirectional pixel-based model trained solely on visual data can achieve comparable results to state-of-the-art bidirectional models on several language understanding tasks. This work uncovers the untapped potential of integrating visual and textual modalities for more effective language modeling. We release our code, data, and model checkpoints at https://github.com/ernie-research/pixelgpt."}
{"Title": "On Training Data Influence of GPT Models", "Abstract": "Amidst the rapid advancements in generative language models, the investigation of how training data shapes the performance of GPT models is still emerging. This paper presents GPTfluence, a novel approach that leverages a featurized simulation to assess the impact of training examples on the training dynamics of GPT models. Our approach not only traces the influence of individual training instances on performance trajectories, such as loss and other key metrics, on targeted test points but also enables a comprehensive comparison with existing methods across various training scenarios in GPT models, ranging from 14 million to 2.8 billion parameters, across a range of downstream tasks. Contrary to earlier methods that struggle with generalization to new data, GPTfluence introduces a parameterized simulation of training dynamics, demonstrating robust generalization capabilities to unseen training data. This adaptability is evident across both fine-tuning and instruction-tuning scenarios, spanning tasks in natural language understanding and generation. We make our code and data publicly available at https://github.com/ernie-research/gptfluence."}
{"Title": "Understanding \u201cDemocratization\u201d in NLP and ML Research", "Abstract": "Recent improvements in natural language processing (NLP) and machine learning (ML) and increased mainstream adoption have led to researchers frequently discussing the {``}democratization{''} of artificial intelligence. In this paper, we seek to clarify how democratization is understood in NLP and ML publications, through large-scale mixed-methods analyses of papers using the keyword {``}democra*{''} published in NLP and adjacent venues. We find that democratization is most frequently used to convey (ease of) access to or use of technologies, without meaningfully engaging with theories of democratization, while research using other invocations of {``}democra*{''} tends to be grounded in theories of deliberation and debate. Based on our findings, we call for researchers to enrich their use of the term democratization with appropriate theory, towards democratic technologies beyond superficial access."}
{"Title": "DocKD: Knowledge Distillation from LLMs for Open-World Document Understanding Models", "Abstract": "Visual document understanding (VDU) is a challenging task that involves understanding documents across various modalities (text and image) and layouts (forms, tables, etc.). This study aims to enhance generalizability of small VDU models by distilling knowledge from LLMs. We identify that directly prompting LLMs often fails to generate informative and useful data. In response, we present a new framework (called DocKD) that enriches the data generation process by integrating external document knowledge. Specifically, we provide an LLM with various document elements like key-value pairs, layouts, and descriptions, to elicit open-ended answers. Our experiments show that DocKD produces high-quality document annotations and surpasses the direct knowledge distillation approach that does not leverage external document knowledge. Moreover, student VDU models trained with solely DocKD-generated data is not only comparable to those trained with human-annotated data on in-domain tasks but also significantly excel them on out-of-domain tasks."}
{"Title": "Cross-lingual Transfer for Automatic Question Generation by Learning Interrogative Structures in Target Languages", "Abstract": "Automatic question generation (QG) serves a wide range of purposes, such as augmenting question-answering (QA) corpora, enhancing chatbot systems, and developing educational materials. Despite its importance, most existing datasets predominantly focus on English, resulting in a considerable gap in data availability for other languages. Cross-lingual transfer for QG (XLT-QG) addresses this limitation by allowing models trained on high-resource language datasets to generate questions in low-resource languages. In this paper, we propose a simple and efficient XLT-QG method that operates without the need for monolingual, parallel, or labeled data in the target language, utilizing a small language model. Our model, trained solely on English QA datasets, learns interrogative structures from a limited set of question exemplars, which are then applied to generate questions in the target language. Experimental results show that our method outperforms several XLT-QG baselines and achieves performance comparable to GPT-3.5-turbo across different languages. Additionally, the synthetic data generated by our model proves beneficial for training multilingual QA models. With significantly fewer parameters than large language models and without requiring additional training for target languages, our approach offers an effective solution for QG and QA tasks across various languages."}
{"Title": "ScalingFilter: Assessing Data Quality through Inverse Utilization of Scaling Laws", "Abstract": "High-quality data is crucial for the pre-training performance of large language models. Unfortunately, existing quality filtering methods rely on a known high-quality dataset as reference, which can introduce potential bias and compromise diversity. In this paper, we propose ScalingFilter, a novel approach that evaluates text quality based on the perplexity difference between two language models trained on the same data, thereby eliminating the influence of the reference dataset in the filtering process. An theoretical analysis shows that ScalingFilter is equivalent to an inverse utilization of scaling laws. Through training models with 1.3B parameters on the same data source processed by various quality filters, we find ScalingFilter can improve zero-shot performance of pre-trained models in downstream tasks. To assess the bias introduced by quality filtering, we introduce semantic diversity, a metric of utilizing text embedding models for semantic representations. Extensive experiments reveal that semantic diversity is a reliable indicator of dataset diversity, and ScalingFilter achieves an optimal balance between downstream performance and semantic diversity."}
{"Title": "Word Alignment as Preference for Machine Translation", "Abstract": "The problem of hallucination and omission, a long-standing problem in machine translation (MT), is more pronounced when a large language model (LLM) is used in MT because an LLM itself is susceptible to these phenomena. In this work, we mitigate the problem in an LLM-based MT model by guiding it to better word alignment. We first study the correlation between word alignment and the phenomena of hallucination and omission in MT. Then we propose to utilize word alignment as preference to optimize the LLM-based MT model. The preference data are constructed by selecting chosen and rejected translations from multiple MT tools. Subsequently, direct preference optimization is used to optimize the LLM-based model towards the preference signal. Given the absence of evaluators specifically designed for hallucination and omission in MT, we further propose selecting hard instances and utilizing GPT-4 to directly evaluate the performance of the models in mitigating these issues. We verify the rationality of these designed evaluation methods by experiments, followed by extensive results demonstrating the effectiveness of word alignment-based preference optimization to mitigate hallucination and omission. On the other hand, although it shows promise in mitigating hallucination and omission, the overall performance of MT in different language directions remains mixed, with slight increases in BLEU and decreases in COMET."}
{"Title": "Improving Multi-party Dialogue Generation via Topic and Rhetorical Coherence", "Abstract": "Previous studies on multi-party dialogue generation predominantly concentrated on modeling the reply-to structure of dialogue histories, always overlooking the coherence between generated responses and target utterances. To address this issue, we propose a Reinforcement Learning approach emphasizing both Topic and Rhetorical Coherence (RL-TRC). In particular, the topic- and rhetorical-coherence tasks are designed to enhance the model{'}s perception of coherence with the target utterance. Subsequently, an agent is employed to learn a coherence policy, which guides the generation of responses that are topically and rhetorically aligned with the target utterance. Furthermore, three discourse-aware rewards are developed to assess the coherence between the generated response and the target utterance, with the objective of optimizing the policy. The experimental results and in-depth analyses on two popular datasets demonstrate that our RL-TRC significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art baselines, particularly in generating responses that are more coherent with the target utterances."}
{"Title": "SEEKR: Selective Attention-Guided Knowledge Retention for Continual Learning of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Continual learning (CL) is crucial for language models to dynamically adapt to the evolving real-world demands. To mitigate the catastrophic forgetting problem in CL, data replay has been proven a simple and effective strategy, and the subsequent data-replay-based distillation can further enhance the performance. However, existing methods fail to fully exploit the knowledge embedded in models from previous tasks, resulting in the need for a relatively large number of replay samples to achieve good results. In this work, we first explore and emphasize the importance of attention weights in knowledge retention, and then propose a SElective attEntion-guided Knowledge Retention method (SEEKR) for data-efficient replay-based continual learning of large language models (LLMs). Specifically, SEEKR performs attention distillation on the selected attention heads for finer-grained knowledge retention, where the proposed forgettability-based and task-sensitivity-based measures are used to identify the most valuable attention heads. Experimental results on two continual learning benchmarks for LLMs demonstrate the superiority of SEEKR over the existing methods on both performance and efficiency. Explicitly, SEEKR achieves comparable or even better performance with only 1/10 of the replayed data used by other methods, and reduces the proportion of replayed data to 1{\\%}. The code is available at https://github.com/jinghan1he/SEEKR."}
{"Title": "Neuron-Level Knowledge Attribution in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Identifying important neurons for final predictions is essential for understanding the mechanisms of large language models. Due to computational constraints, current attribution techniques struggle to operate at neuron level. In this paper, we propose a static method for pinpointing significant neurons. Compared to seven other methods, our approach demonstrates superior performance across three metrics. Additionally, since most static methods typically only identify {``}value neurons{''} directly contributing to the final prediction, we propose a method for identifying {``}query neurons{''} which activate these {``}value neurons{''}. Finally, we apply our methods to analyze six types of knowledge across both attention and feed-forward network (FFN) layers. Our method and analysis are helpful for understanding the mechanisms of knowledge storage and set the stage for future research in knowledge editing. The code is available on https://github.com/zepingyu0512/neuron-attribution."}
{"Title": "How do Large Language Models Learn In-Context? Query and Key Matrices of In-Context Heads are Two Towers for Metric Learning", "Abstract": "We investigate the mechanism of in-context learning (ICL) on sentence classification tasks with semantically-unrelated labels ({``}foo{''}/{``}bar{''}). We find intervening in only 1{\\%} heads (named {``}in-context heads{''}) significantly affects ICL accuracy from 87.6{\\%} to 24.4{\\%}. To understand this phenomenon, we analyze the value-output vectors in these heads and discover that the vectors at each label position contain substantial information about the corresponding labels. Furthermore, we observe that the prediction shift from {``}foo{''} to {``}bar{''} is due to the respective reduction and increase in these heads{'} attention scores at {``}foo{''} and {``}bar{''} positions. Therefore, we propose a hypothesis for ICL: in in-context heads, the value-output matrices extract label features, while the query-key matrices compute the similarity between the features at the last position and those at each label position. The query and key matrices can be considered as two towers that learn the similarity metric between the last position{'}s features and each demonstration at label positions. Using this hypothesis, we explain the majority label bias and recency bias in ICL and propose two methods to reduce these biases by 22{\\%} and 17{\\%}, respectively."}
{"Title": "Interpreting Arithmetic Mechanism in Large Language Models through Comparative Neuron Analysis", "Abstract": "We find arithmetic ability resides within a limited number of attention heads, with each head specializing in distinct operations. To delve into the reason, we introduce the Comparative Neuron Analysis (CNA) method, which identifies an internal logic chain consisting of four distinct stages from input to prediction: feature enhancing with shallow FFN neurons, feature transferring by shallow attention layers, feature predicting by arithmetic heads, and prediction enhancing among deep FFN neurons. Moreover, we identify the human-interpretable FFN neurons within both feature-enhancing and feature-predicting stages. These findings lead us to investigate the mechanism of LoRA, revealing that it enhances prediction probabilities by amplifying the coefficient scores of FFN neurons related to predictions. Finally, we apply our method in model pruning for arithmetic tasks and model editing for reducing gender bias. Code is on https://github.com/zepingyu0512/arithmetic-mechanism."}
{"Title": "Pixology: Probing the Linguistic and Visual Capabilities of Pixel-based Language Models", "Abstract": "Pixel-based language models have emerged as a compelling alternative to subword-based language modelling, particularly because they can represent virtually any script. PIXEL, a canonical example of such a model, is a vision transformer that has been pre-trained on rendered text. While PIXEL has shown promising cross-script transfer abilities and robustness to orthographic perturbations, it falls short of outperforming monolingual subword counterparts like BERT in most other contexts. This discrepancy raises questions about the amount of linguistic knowledge learnt by these models and whether their performance in language tasks stems more from their visual capabilities than their linguistic ones. To explore this, we probe PIXEL using a variety of linguistic and visual tasks to assess its position on the vision-to-language spectrum. Our findings reveal a substantial gap between the model{'}s visual and linguistic understanding. The lower layers of PIXEL predominantly capture superficial visual features, whereas the higher layers gradually learn more syntactic and semantic abstractions. Additionally, we examine variants of PIXEL trained with different text rendering strategies, discovering that introducing certain orthographic constraints at the input level can facilitate earlier learning of surface-level features. With this study, we hope to provide insights that aid the further development of pixel-based language models."}
{"Title": "GoldCoin: Grounding Large Language Models in Privacy Laws via Contextual Integrity Theory", "Abstract": "Privacy issues arise prominently during the inappropriate transmission of information between entities. Existing research primarily studies privacy by exploring various privacy attacks, defenses, and evaluations within narrowly predefined patterns, while neglecting that privacy is not an isolated, context-free concept limited to traditionally sensitive data (e.g., social security numbers), but intertwined with intricate social contexts that complicate the identification and analysis of potential privacy violations. The advent of Large Language Models (LLMs) offers unprecedented opportunities for incorporating the nuanced scenarios outlined in privacy laws to tackle these complex privacy issues. However, the scarcity of open-source relevant case studies restricts the efficiency of LLMs in aligning with specific legal statutes. To address this challenge, we introduce a novel framework, GoldCoin, designed to efficiently ground LLMs in privacy laws for judicial assessing privacy violations. Our framework leverages the theory of contextual integrity as a bridge, creating numerous synthetic scenarios grounded in relevant privacy statutes (e.g., HIPAA), to assist LLMs in comprehending the complex contexts for identifying privacy risks in the real world. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that GoldCoin markedly enhances LLMs{'} capabilities in recognizing privacy risks across real court cases, surpassing the baselines on different judicial tasks."}
{"Title": "Noise, Novels, Numbers. A Framework for Detecting and Categorizing Noise in Danish and Norwegian Literature", "Abstract": "We present a framework for detecting and categorizing noise in literary texts, demonstrated through its application to Danish and Norwegian literature from the late 19-th century. Noise, understood as {``}aberrant sonic behaviour,{''} is not only an auditory phenomenon but also a cultural construct tied to the processes of civilization and urbanization.We begin by utilizing topic modeling techniques to identify noise-related documents, followed by fine-tuning BERT-based language models trained on Danish and Norwegian texts to analyze a corpus of over 800 novels.We identify and track the prevalence of noise in these texts, offering insights into the literary perceptions of noise during the Scandinavian {``}Modern Breakthrough{''} period (1870-1899). Our contributions include the development of a comprehensive dataset annotated for noise-related segments and their categorization into human-made, non-human-made, and musical noises. This study illustrates the framework{'}s potential for enhancing the understanding of the relationship between noise and its literary representations, providing a deeper appreciation of the auditory elements in literary works, including as sources for cultural history."}
{"Title": "QUIK: Towards End-to-end 4-Bit Inference on Generative Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) from the GPT family have become extremely popular, leading to a race towards reducing their inference costs to allow for efficient local computation. However, the vast majority of existing work focuses on weight-only quantization, which can reduce runtime costs in the memory-bound one-token-at-a-time generative setting, but does not address costs in compute-bound scenarios, such as batched inference or prompt processing.In this paper, we address the general quantization problem, where \\textit{both weights and activations} should be quantized, which leads to computational improvements in general. We show that the majority of inference computations for large generative models can be performed with both weights and activations being cast to 4 bits, while at the same time maintaining good accuracy. We achieve this via a hybrid quantization strategy called QUIK that compresses most of the weights and activations to 4-bit, while keeping a small fraction of {``}outlier{''} weights and activations in higher-precision. QUIK is that it is designed with computational efficiency in mind: we provide GPU kernels matching the QUIK format with highly-efficient layer-wise runtimes, which lead to practical end-to-end throughput improvements of up to 3.4x relative to FP16 execution. We provide detailed studies for models from the OPT, LLaMA-2 and Falcon families, as well as a first instance of accurate inference using quantization plus 2:4 sparsity.Anonymized code is available."}
{"Title": "Fine-Grained Prediction of Reading Comprehension from Eye Movements", "Abstract": "Can human reading comprehension be assessed from eye movements in reading? In this work, we address this longstanding question using large-scale eyetracking data. We focus on a cardinal and largely unaddressed variant of this question: predicting reading comprehension of a single participant for a single question from their eye movements over a single paragraph. We tackle this task using a battery of recent models from the literature, and three new multimodal language models. We evaluate the models in two different reading regimes: ordinary reading and information seeking, and examine their generalization to new textual items, new participants, and the combination of both. The evaluations suggest that the task is highly challenging, and highlight the importance of benchmarking against a strong text-only baseline. While in some cases eye movements provide improvements over such a baseline, they tend to be small. This could be due to limitations of current modelling approaches, limitations of the data, or because eye movement behavior does not sufficiently pertain to fine-grained aspects of reading comprehension processes. Our study provides an infrastructure for making further progress on this question."}
{"Title": "EfficientRAG: Efficient Retriever for Multi-Hop Question Answering", "Abstract": "Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) methods encounter difficulties when addressing complex questions like multi-hop queries.While iterative retrieval methods improve performance by gathering additional information, current approaches often rely on multiple calls of large language models (LLMs).In this paper, we introduce EfficientRAG, an efficient retriever for multi-hop question answering.EfficientRAG iteratively generates new queries without the need for LLM calls at each iteration and filters out irrelevant information.Experimental results demonstrate that EfficientRAG surpasses existing RAG methods on three open-domain multi-hop question-answering datasets.The code is available in [aka.ms/efficientrag](https://github.com/NIL-zhuang/EfficientRAG-official)."}
{"Title": "Unsupervised Human Preference Learning", "Abstract": "Large language models demonstrate impressive reasoning abilities but struggle to provide personalized content due to their lack of individual user preference information. Existing methods, such as in-context learning and parameter-efficient fine-tuning, fall short in capturing the complexity of human preferences, especially given the small, personal datasets individuals possess. In this paper, we propose a novel approach utilizing small parameter models as preference agents to generate natural language rules that guide a larger, pre-trained model, enabling efficient personalization. Our method involves a small, local {``}steering wheel{''} model that directs the outputs of a much larger foundation model, producing content tailored to an individual{'}s preferences while leveraging the extensive knowledge and capabilities of the large model. Importantly, this personalization is achieved without the need to fine-tune the large model. Experimental results on email and article datasets, demonstrate that our technique significantly outperforms baseline personalization methods. By allowing foundation models to adapt to individual preferences in a data and compute-efficient manner, our approach paves the way for highly personalized language model applications."}
{"Title": "Is Safer Better? The Impact of Guardrails on the Argumentative Strength of LLMs in Hate Speech Countering", "Abstract": "The potential effectiveness of counterspeech as a hate speech mitigation strategy is attracting increasing interest in the NLG research community, particularly towards the task of automatically producing it. However, automatically generated responses often lack the argumentative richness which characterises expert-produced counterspeech. In this work, we focus on two aspects of counterspeech generation to produce more cogent responses. First, by investigating the tension between helpfulness and harmlessness of LLMs, we test whether the presence of safety guardrails hinders the quality of the generations. Secondly, we assess whether attacking a specific component of the hate speech results in a more effective argumentative strategy to fight online hate. By conducting an extensive human and automatic evaluation, we show how the presence of safety guardrails can be detrimental also to a task that inherently aims at fostering positive social interactions. Moreover, our results show that attacking a specific component of the hate speech, and in particular its implicit negative stereotype and its hateful parts, leads to higher-quality generations."}
{"Title": "Leading Whitespaces of Language Models' Subword Vocabulary Pose a Confound for Calculating Word Probabilities", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "LLM4Decompile: Decompiling Binary Code with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Decompilation aims to convert binary code to high-level source code, but traditional tools like Ghidra often produce results that are difficult to read and execute. Motivated by the advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs), we propose LLM4Decompile, the first and largest open-source LLM series (1.3B to 33B) trained to decompile binary code. We optimize the LLM training process and introduce the LLM4Decompile-End models to decompile binary directly. The resulting models significantly outperform GPT-4o and Ghidra on the HumanEval and ExeBench benchmarks by over 100{\\%} in terms of re-executability rate. Additionally, we improve the standard refinement approach to fine-tune the LLM4Decompile-Ref models, enabling them to effectively refine the decompiled code from Ghidra and achieve a further 16.2{\\%} improvement over the LLM4Decompile-End. LLM4Decompile demonstrates the potential of LLMs to revolutionize binary code decompilation, delivering remarkable improvements in readability and executability while complementing conventional tools for optimal results."}
{"Title": "From Bottom to Top: Extending the Potential of Parameter Efficient Fine-Tuning", "Abstract": "With the proliferation of large language models, Parameter Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) method, which freeze pre-trained parameters and only fine-tune a few task-specific parameters, are playing an increasingly important role. However, previous work primarily applied uniform operations across all layers of the model, overlooking the fact that different layers in a transformer store different information. In the process of exploration, We find that there is a significant differences in fine-tuning strategies between different layers, and fine-tuning only a subset of layers can even achieve comparable performance. Based on this, we propose the Hybrid LoRA-Prefix Tuning(HLPT) method, which uses enhanced LoRA and Prefix-tuning methods with learnable adaptive mechanism separately for the bottom and top layers, and the Half Hybrid LoRA-Prefix Tuning($H^2$LPT) method, which goes a step further, reducing the parameter count to nearly half by omitting fine-tuning in the middle layers. Extensive experiments with large language models on various downstream tasks provide strong evidence for the potential of PEFT focusing on different layers{'} interactions and the effectiveness of our methods. Furthermore, we validate the robustness of these methods and their advantages in speeding up training convergence, reducing inference time requirements."}
{"Title": "CoTKR: Chain-of-Thought Enhanced Knowledge Rewriting for Complex Knowledge Graph Question Answering", "Abstract": "Recent studies have explored the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) with Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) for Knowledge Graph Question Answering (KGQA). They typically require rewriting retrieved subgraphs into natural language formats comprehensible to LLMs. However, when tackling complex questions, the knowledge rewritten by existing methods may include irrelevant information, omit crucial details, or fail to align with the question{'}s semantics. To address them, we propose a novel rewriting method CoTKR, Chain- of-Thought Enhanced Knowledge Rewriting, for generating reasoning traces and corresponding knowledge in an interleaved manner, thereby mitigating the limitations of single-step knowledge rewriting. Additionally, to bridge the preference gap between the knowledge rewriter and the question answering (QA) model, we propose a training strategy PAQAF, Preference Alignment from Question Answering Feedback, for leveraging feedback from the QA model to further optimize the knowledge rewriter. We conduct experiments using various LLMs across several KGQA benchmarks. Experimental results demonstrate that, compared with previous knowledge rewriting methods, CoTKR generates the most beneficial knowledge representation for QA models, which significantly improves the performance of LLMs in KGQA."}
{"Title": "MTLS: Making Texts into Linguistic Symbols", "Abstract": "In linguistics, all languages can be considered as symbolic systems, with each language relying on symbolic processes to associate specific symbols with meanings. In the same language, there is a fixed correspondence between linguistic symbol and meaning. In different languages, universal meanings follow varying rules of symbolization in one-to-one correspondence with symbols. Most work overlooks the properties of languages as symbol systems. In this paper, we shift the focus to the symbolic properties and introduce MTLS: a pre-training method to improve the multilingual capability of models by Making Texts into Linguistic Symbols. Initially, we replace the vocabulary in pre-trained language models by mapping relations between linguistic symbols and semantics. Subsequently, universal semantics within the symbolic system serve as bridges, linking symbols from different languages to the embedding space of the model, thereby enabling the model to process linguistic symbols. To evaluate the effectiveness of MTLS, we conducted experiments on multilingual tasks using BERT and RoBERTa, respectively, as the backbone. The results indicate that despite having just over 12,000 pieces of English data in pre-training, the improvement that MTLS brings to multilingual capabilities is remarkably significant."}
{"Title": "D2R: Dual-Branch Dynamic Routing Network for Multimodal Sentiment Detection", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "A Generic Method for Fine-grained Category Discovery in Natural Language Texts", "Abstract": "Fine-grained category discovery using only coarse-grained supervision is a cost-effective yet challenging task. Previous training methods focus on aligning query samples with positive samples and distancing them from negatives. They often neglect intra-category and inter-category semantic similarities of fine-grained categories when navigating sample distributions in the embedding space. Furthermore, some evaluation techniques that rely on pre-collected test samples are inadequate for real-time applications. To address these shortcomings, we introduce a method that successfully detects fine-grained clusters of semantically similar texts guided by a novel objective function. The method uses semantic similarities in a logarithmic space to guide sample distributions in the Euclidean space and to form distinct clusters that represent fine-grained categories. We also propose a centroid inference mechanism to support real-time applications. The efficacy of the method is both theoretically justified and empirically confirmed on three benchmark tasks. The proposed objective function is integrated in multiple contrastive learning based neural models. Its results surpass existing state-of-the-art approaches in terms of Accuracy, Adjusted Rand Index and Normalized Mutual Information of the detected fine-grained categories. Code and data are publicly available at https://github.com/changtianluckyforever/F-grained-STAR."}
{"Title": "Toxicity Detection is NOT all you Need: Measuring the Gaps to Supporting Volunteer Content Moderators through a User-Centric Method", "Abstract": "Extensive efforts in automated approaches for content moderation have been focused on developing models to identify toxic, offensive, and hateful content with the aim of lightening the load for moderators. Yet, it remains uncertain whether improvements on those tasks have truly addressed moderators{'} needs in accomplishing their work. In this paper, we surface gaps between past research efforts that have aimed to provide automation for aspects of content moderation and the needs of volunteer content moderators, regarding identifying violations of various moderation rules. To do so, we conduct a model review on Hugging Face to reveal the availability of models to cover various moderation rules and guidelines from three exemplar forums. We further put state-of-the-art LLMs to the test, evaluating how well these models perform in flagging violations of platform rules from one particular forum. Finally, we conduct a user survey study with volunteer moderators to gain insight into their perspectives on useful moderation models. Overall, we observe a non trivial gap, as missing developed models and LLMs exhibit moderate to low performance on a significant portion of the rules. Moderators{'} reports provide guides for future work on developing moderation assistant models."}
{"Title": "A User-Centric Multi-Intent Benchmark for Evaluating Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are essential tools that users employ across various scenarios, so evaluating their performance and guiding users in selecting the suitable service is important. Although many benchmarks exist, they mainly focus on specific predefined model abilities, such as world knowledge, reasoning, etc. Based on these ability scores, it is hard for users to determine which LLM best suits their particular needs. To address these issues, we propose to evaluate LLMs from a user-centric perspective and design this benchmark to measure their efficacy in satisfying user needs under distinct intents. Firstly, we collect 1,846 real-world use cases from a user study with 712 participants from 23 countries. This first-hand data helps us understand actual user intents and needs in LLM interactions, forming the User Reported Scenarios (URS) dataset, which is categorized with six types of user intents. Secondly, based on this authentic dataset, we benchmark 10 LLM services with GPT-4-as-Judge. Thirdly, we show that benchmark scores align well with human preference in both real-world experience and pair-wise annotations, achieving Pearson correlations of 0.95 and 0.94, respectively. This alignment confirms that the URS dataset and our evaluation method establish an effective user-centric benchmark. The dataset, code, and process data are publicly available at https://github.com/Alice1998/URS."}
{"Title": "Decompose and Compare Consistency: Measuring VLMs' Answer Reliability via Task-Decomposition Consistency Comparison", "Abstract": "Despite tremendous advancements, current state-of-the-art Vision-Language Models (VLMs) are still far from perfect. They tend to hallucinate and may generate biased responses. In such circumstances, having a way to assess the reliability of a given response generated by a VLM is quite useful. Existing methods, such as estimating uncertainty using answer likelihoods or prompt-based confidence generation, often suffer from overconfidence. Other methods use self-consistency comparison but are affected by confirmation biases. To alleviate these, we propose Decompose and Compare Consistency (DeCC) for reliability measurement. By comparing the consistency between the direct answer generated using the VLM{'}s internal reasoning process, and the indirect answers obtained by decomposing the question into sub-questions and reasoning over the sub-answers produced by the VLM, DeCC measures the reliability of VLM{'}s direct answer. Experiments across six vision-language tasks with three VLMs show DeCC{'}s reliability estimation achieves better correlation with task accuracy compared to the existing methods."}
{"Title": "Learn to Refuse: Making Large Language Models More Controllable and Reliable through Knowledge Scope Limitation and Refusal Mechanism", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive language understanding and generation capabilities, enabling them to answer a wide range of questions across various domains. However, these models are not flawless and often produce responses that contain errors or misinformation. These inaccuracies, commonly referred to as hallucinations, render LLMs unreliable and even unusable in many scenarios. In this paper, our focus is on mitigating the issue of hallucination in LLMs, particularly in the context of question-answering. Instead of attempting to answer all questions, we explore a refusal mechanism that instructs LLMs to refuse to answer challenging questions in order to avoid errors. We then propose a simple yet effective solution called Learn to Refuse (L2R), which incorporates the refusal mechanism to enable LLMs to recognize and refuse to answer questions that they find difficult to address. To achieve this, we utilize a structured knowledge base to represent all the LLM{'}s understanding of the world, enabling it to provide traceable gold knowledge. This knowledge base is separate from the LLM and initially empty. It can be filled with validated knowledge and progressively expanded. When an LLM encounters questions outside its domain, the system recognizes its knowledge scope and determines whether it can answer the question independently. Additionally, we introduce a method for automatically and efficiently expanding the knowledge base of LLMs. Through qualitative and quantitative analysis, we demonstrate that our approach enhances the controllability and reliability of LLMs."}
{"Title": "VGBench: Evaluating Large Language Models on Vector Graphics Understanding and Generation", "Abstract": "In the realm of vision models, the primary mode of representation is using pixels to rasterize the visual world. Yet this is not always the best or unique way to represent visual content, especially for designers and artists who depict the world using geometry primitives such as polygons. Vector graphics (VG), on the other hand, offer a textual representation of visual content, which can be more concise and powerful for content like cartoons, sketches and scientific figures. Recent studies have shown promising results on processing vector graphics with capable Large Language Models (LLMs). However, such works focus solely on qualitative results, understanding, or a specific type of vector graphics. We propose VGBench, a comprehensive benchmark for LLMs on handling vector graphics through diverse aspects, including (a) both visual understanding and generation, (b) evaluation of various vector graphics formats, (c) diverse question types, (d) wide range of prompting techniques, (e) under multiple LLMs and (f) comparison with VLMs on rasterized representations. Evaluating on our collected 4279 understanding and 5845 generation samples, we find that LLMs show strong capability on both aspects while exhibiting less desirable performance on low-level formats (SVG). Both data and evaluation pipeline will be open-sourced."}
{"Title": "What do Large Language Models Need for Machine Translation Evaluation?", "Abstract": "Leveraging large language models (LLMs) for various natural language processing tasks has led to superlative claims about their performance. For the evaluation of machine translation (MT), existing research shows that LLMs are able to achieve results comparable to fine-tuned multilingual pre-trained language models. In this paper, we explore what translation information, such as the source, reference, translation errors and annotation guidelines, is needed for LLMs to evaluate MT quality. In addition, we investigate prompting techniques such as zero-shot, Chain of Thought (CoT) and few-shot prompting for eight language pairs covering high-, medium- and low-resource languages, leveraging varying LLM variants. Our findings indicate the importance of reference translations for an LLM-based evaluation. While larger models do not necessarily fare better, they tend to benefit more from CoT prompting, than smaller models. We also observe that LLMs do not always provide a numerical score when generating evaluations, which poses a question on their reliability for the task. Our work presents a comprehensive analysis for resource-constrained and training-less LLM-based evaluation of machine translation. We release the accrued prompt templates, code and data publicly for reproducibility."}
{"Title": "Performance-Guided LLM Knowledge Distillation for Efficient Text Classification at Scale", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) face significant challenges at inference time due to their high computational demands. To address this, we present Performance-Guided Knowledge Distillation (PGKD), a cost-effective and high-throughput solution for production text classification applications. PGKD utilizes teacher-student Knowledge Distillation to distill the knowledge of LLMs into smaller, task-specific models. PGKD establishes an active learning routine between the student model and the LLM; the LLM continuously generates new training data leveraging hard-negative mining, student model validation performance, and early-stopping protocols to inform the data generation. By employing a cyclical, performance-aware approach tailored for highly multi-class, sparsely annotated datasets prevalent in industrial text classification, PGKD effectively addresses training challenges and outperforms traditional BERT-base models and other knowledge distillation methods on several multi-class classification datasets. Additionally, cost and latency benchmarking reveals that models fine-tuned with PGKD are up to 130X faster and 25X less expensive than LLMs for inference on the same classification task. While PGKD is showcased for text classification tasks, its versatile framework can be extended to any LLM distillation task, including language generation, making it a powerful tool for optimizing performance across a wide range of AI applications."}
{"Title": "External Knowledge-Driven Argument Mining: Leveraging Attention-Enhanced Multi-Network Models", "Abstract": "Argument mining (AM) involves the identification of argument relations (AR) between Argumentative Discourse Units (ADUs). The essence of ARs among ADUs is context-dependent and lies in maintaining a coherent flow of ideas, often centered around the relations between discussed entities, topics, themes or concepts. However, these relations are not always explicitly stated; rather, inferred from implicit chains of reasoning connecting the concepts addressed in the ADUs. While humans can infer such background knowledge, machines face challenges when the contextual cues are not explicitly provided. This paper leverages external resources, including WordNet, ConceptNet, and Wikipedia to identify semantic paths (knowledge paths) connecting the concepts discussed in the ADUs to obtain the implicit chains of reasoning. To effectively leverage these paths for AR prediction, we propose attention-based Multi-Network architectures. Various architecture are evaluated on the external resources, and the Wikipedia based configuration attains F-scores of 0.85, 0.84, 0.70, and 0.87, respectively, on four diverse datasets, showing strong performance over the baselines."}
{"Title": "C3PA: An Open Dataset of Expert-Annotated and Regulation-Aware Privacy Policies to Enable Scalable Regulatory Compliance Audits", "Abstract": "The development of tools and techniques to analyze and extract organizations{'} data habits from privacy policies are critical for scalable regulatory compliance audits. Unfortunately, these tools are becoming increasingly limited in their ability to identify compliance issues and fixes. After all, most were developed using regulation-agnostic datasets of annotated privacy policies obtained from a time before the introduction of landmark privacy regulations such as EU{'}s GDPR and California{'}s CCPA. In this paper, we describe the first open regulation-aware dataset of expert-annotated privacy policies, C3PA (CCPA Privacy Policy Provision Annotations), aimed to address this challenge. C3PA contains over 48K expert-labeled privacy policy text segments associated with responses to CCPA-specific disclosure mandates from 411 unique organizations. We demonstrate that the C3PA dataset is uniquely suited for aiding automated audits of compliance with CCPA-related disclosure mandates."}
{"Title": "M^2PT: Multimodal Prompt Tuning for Zero-shot Instruction Learning", "Abstract": "Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) demonstrate remarkable performance across a wide range of domains, with increasing emphasis on enhancing their zero-shot generalization capabilities for unseen tasks across various modalities. Instruction tuning has emerged as an effective strategy for achieving zero-shot generalization by finetuning pretrained models on diverse multimodal tasks. As the scale of MLLMs continues to grow, parameter-efficient finetuning becomes increasingly critical. However, most existing parameter-efficient approaches focus only on single modalities and often overlook the multimodal characteristics during finetuning. In this work, we introduce a novel Multimodal Prompt Tuning (M$^2$PT) approach for efficient instruction tuning of MLLMs. M$^2$PT effectively integrates visual and textual prompts into the vision encoder and language processor respectively during finetuning, facilitating the extraction and alignment of features across modalities. Empirical results on various multimodal evaluation datasets demonstrate the superior performance of our approach compared to several state-of-the-art baselines. A comprehensive set of ablation studies validates the effectiveness of our prompt design and the efficiency of our approach."}
{"Title": "Text Grafting: Near-Distribution Weak Supervision for Minority Classes in Text Classification", "Abstract": "For extremely weak-supervised text classification, pioneer research generates pseudo labels by mining texts similar to the class names from the raw corpus, which may end up with very limited or even no samples for the minority classes. Recent works have started to generate the relevant texts by prompting LLMs using the class names or definitions; however, there is a high risk that LLMs cannot generate in-distribution (i.e., similar to the corpus where the text classifier will be applied) data, leading to ungeneralizable classifiers. In this paper, we combine the advantages of these two approaches and propose to bridge the gap via a novel framework, \\textit{text grafting}, which aims to obtain clean and near-distribution weak supervision for minority classes. Specifically, we first use LLM-based logits to mine masked templates from the raw corpus, which have a high potential for data synthesis into the target minority class. Then, the templates are filled by state-of-the-art LLMs to synthesize near-distribution texts falling into minority classes. Text grafting shows significant improvement over direct mining or synthesis on minority classes. We also use analysis and case studies to comprehend the property of text grafting."}
{"Title": "Incubating Text Classifiers Following User Instruction with Nothing but LLM", "Abstract": "In this paper, we aim to generate text classification data given arbitrary class definitions (i.e., user instruction), so one can train a text classifier without any human annotation or raw corpus. Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) lead to pioneer attempts to individually generate texts for each class via prompting. In this paper, we propose Incubator, the first framework that can handle complicated and even mutually dependent classes (e.g., ''\\textit{TED Talk given by Educator}'' and ''\\textit{Other}''). Specifically, our Incubator is a fine-tuned LLM that takes the instruction of all class definitions as input, and in each inference, it can jointly generate one sample for every class. First, we tune Incubator on the instruction-to-data mappings that we obtained from classification datasets and descriptions on Hugging Face together with in-context augmentation by GPT-4. To emphasize the uniformity and diversity in generations, we refine Incubator by fine-tuning with the cluster centers of semantic textual embeddings of the generated samples. We compare Incubator on various classification tasks with strong baselines such as direct LLM-based inference and training data generation by prompt engineering. Experiments show Incubator is able to (1) outperform previous methods on traditional benchmarks, (2) take label interdependency and user preference into consideration, and (3) enable logical text mining by incubating multiple classifiers"}
{"Title": "PTD-SQL: Partitioning and Targeted Drilling with LLMs in Text-to-SQL", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as powerful tools for Text-to-SQL tasks, exhibiting remarkable reasoning capabilities. Different from tasks such as math word problem and commonsense reasoning, SQL solutions have a relatively fixed pattern. This facilitates the investigation of whether LLMs can benefit from categorical thinking, mirroring how humans acquire knowledge through inductive reasoning based on comparable examples. In this study, we propose that employing query group partitioning allows LLMs to focus on learning the thought processes specific to a single problem type, consequently enhancing their reasoning abilities across diverse difficulty levels and problem categories. Our experiments reveal that multiple advanced LLMs, when equipped with PTD-SQL, can either surpass or match previous state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods on the Spider and BIRD datasets. Intriguingly, models with varying initial performances have exhibited significant improvements mainly at the boundary of their capabilities after targeted drilling, suggesting a parallel with human progress. Code is available at https://github.com/lrlbbzl/PTD-SQL."}
{"Title": "Conditional and Modal Reasoning in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The reasoning abilities of large language models (LLMs) are the topic of a growing body of research in AI and cognitive science. In this paper, we probe the extent to which twenty-nine LLMs are able to distinguish logically correct inferences from logically fallacious ones. We focus on inference patterns involving conditionals (e.g., '*If* Ann has a queen, *then* Bob has a jack{'}) and epistemic modals (e.g., {`}Ann *might* have an ace{'}, {`}Bob *must* have a king{'}). These inferences have been of special interest to logicians, philosophers, and linguists, since they play a central role in the fundamental human ability to reason about distal possibilities. Assessing LLMs on these inferences is thus highly relevant to the question of how much the reasoning abilities of LLMs match those of humans. All the LLMs we tested make some basic mistakes with conditionals or modals, though zero-shot chain-of-thought prompting helps them make fewer mistakes. Even the best performing LLMs make basic errors in modal reasoning, display logically inconsistent judgments across inference patterns involving epistemic modals and conditionals, and give answers about complex conditional inferences that do not match reported human judgments. These results highlight gaps in basic logical reasoning in today{'}s LLMs."}
{"Title": "Advancing Large Language Model Attribution through Self-Improving", "Abstract": "Teaching large language models (LLMs) to generate text with citations to evidence sources can mitigate hallucinations and enhance verifiability in information-seeking systems. However, improving this capability requires high-quality attribution data, which is costly and labor-intensive. Inspired by recent advances in self-improvement that enhance LLMs without manual annotation, we present START, a Self-Taught AttRibuTion framework for iteratively improving the attribution capability of LLMs. First, to prevent models from stagnating due to initially insufficient supervision signals, START leverages the model to self-construct synthetic training data for warming up. To further self-improve the model{'}s attribution ability, START iteratively utilizes fine-grained preference supervision signals constructed from its sampled responses to encourage robust, comprehensive, and attributable generation. Experiments on three open-domain question-answering datasets, covering long-form QA and multi-step reasoning, demonstrate significant performance gains of 25.13{\\%} on average without relying on human annotations and more advanced models. Further analysis reveals that START excels in aggregating information across multiple sources."}
{"Title": "AlignCap: Aligning Speech Emotion Captioning to Human Preferences", "Abstract": "Speech Emotion Captioning (SEC) has gradually become an active research task. The emotional content conveyed through human speech are often complex, and classifying them into fixed categories may not be enough to fully capture speech emotions. Describing speech emotions through natural language may be a more effective approach. However, existing SEC methods often produce hallucinations and lose generalization on unseen speech. To overcome these problems, we propose AlignCap, which Aligning Speech Emotion Captioning to Human Preferences based on large language model (LLM) with two properties: 1) Speech-Text Alignment, which minimizing the divergence between the LLM{'}s response prediction distributions for speech and text inputs using knowledge distillation (KD) Regularization. 2) Human Preference Alignment, where we design Preference Optimization (PO) Regularization to eliminate factuality and faithfulness hallucinations. We also extract emotional clues as a prompt for enriching fine-grained information under KD-Regularization. Experiments demonstrate that AlignCap presents stronger performance to other state-of-the-art methods on Zero-shot SEC task."}
{"Title": "Interpretability-based Tailored Knowledge Editing in Transformers", "Abstract": "Language models recognized as a new form of knowledge bases, face challenges of outdated, erroneous, and privacy-sensitive information, necessitating knowledge editing to rectify errors without costly retraining. Existing methods, spanning model{'}s parameters modification, external knowledge integration, and in-context learning, lack in-depth analysis from a model interpretability perspective. Our work explores the instability in in-context learning outcomes, providing insights into its reasons and distinctions from other methods. Leveraging findings on the critical role of feed-forward MLPs in decoder-only models, we propose a tailored knowledge editing method, TailoredKE, that considers the unique information flow of each sample. Model interpretability reveals diverse attribute recall across transformer layers, guiding edits to specific features at different depths and mitigating over-editing issues."}
{"Title": "PRompt Optimization in Multi-Step Tasks (PROMST): Integrating Human Feedback and Heuristic-based Sampling", "Abstract": "Prompt optimization aims to find the best prompt to a large language model (LLM) for a given task. LLMs have been successfully used to help find and improve prompt candidates for single-step tasks. However, realistic tasks for agents are multi-step and introduce new challenges: (1) Prompt content is likely to be more extensive and complex, making it more difficult for LLMs to analyze errors, (2) the impact of an individual step is difficult to evaluate, and (3) different people may have varied preferences about task execution. While humans struggle to optimize prompts, they are good at providing feedback about LLM outputs; we therefore introduce a new LLM-driven discrete prompt optimization framework PROMST that incorporates human-designed feedback rules to automatically offer direct suggestions for improvement. We also use an extra learned heuristic model that predicts prompt performance to efficiently sample from prompt candidates. This approach significantly outperforms both human-engineered prompts and several other prompt optimization methods across 11 representative multi-step tasks (an average 10.6{\\%}-29.3{\\%} improvement to current best methods on five LLMs respectively). We believe our work can serve as a benchmark for automatic prompt optimization for LLM-driven multi-step tasks."}
{"Title": "Empowering Large Language Model for Continual Video Question Answering with Collaborative Prompting", "Abstract": "In recent years, the rapid increase in online video content has underscored the limitations of static Video Question Answering (VideoQA) models trained on fixed datasets, as they struggle to adapt to new questions or tasks posed by newly available content. In this paper, we explore the novel challenge of VideoQA within a continual learning framework, and empirically identify a critical issue: fine-tuning a large language model (LLM) for a sequence of tasks often results in catastrophic forgetting. To address this, we propose Collaborative Prompting (ColPro), which integrates specific question constraint prompting, knowledge acquisition prompting, and visual temporal awareness prompting. These prompts aim to capture textual question context, visual content, and video temporal dynamics in VideoQA, a perspective underexplored in prior research. Experimental results on the NExT-QA and DramaQA datasets show that ColPro achieves superior performance compared to existing approaches, achieving 55.14{\\%} accuracy on NExT-QA and 71.24{\\%} accuracy on DramaQA, highlighting its practical relevance and effectiveness."}
{"Title": "Dissecting Fine-Tuning Unlearning in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Fine-tuning-based unlearning methods prevail for erasing targeted harmful, sensitive, or copyrighted information within large language models while preserving overall capabilities. However, the true effectiveness of the methods is unclear. In this paper, we delve into the limitations of fine-tuning-based unlearning through activation patching and parameter restoration experiments. Our findings reveal that these methods alter the model{'}s knowledge retrieval process, rather than genuinely erasing the problematic knowledge embedded in the model parameters. Furthermore, behavioral tests demonstrate that the unlearning mechanisms inevitably impact the global behavior of the models, affecting unrelated knowledge or capabilities. Our work advocates the development of more resilient unlearning techniques for truly erasing knowledge."}
{"Title": "Dancing in Chains: Reconciling Instruction Following and Faithfulness in Language Models", "Abstract": "Modern language models (LMs) need to follow human instructions while being faithful; yet, they often fail to achieve both. Here, we provide concrete evidence of a trade-off between instruction following (i.e., follow open-ended instructions) and faithfulness (i.e., ground responses in given context) when training LMs with these objectives. For instance, fine-tuning LLaMA-7B on instruction following datasets renders it less faithful. Conversely, instruction-tuned Vicuna-7B shows degraded performance at following instructions when further optimized on tasks that require contextual grounding. One common remedy is multi-task learning (MTL) with data mixing, yet it remains far from achieving a synergic outcome. We propose a simple yet effective method that relies on Reject-sampling by Self-instruct with Continued Fine-tuning (ReSet), which significantly outperforms vanilla MTL. Surprisingly, we find that less is more, as training ReSet with high-quality, yet substantially smaller data (three-fold less) yields superior results. Our findings offer a better understanding of objective discrepancies in alignment training of LMs."}
{"Title": "Where is the signal in tokenization space?", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) are typically shipped with tokenizers that *deterministically* encode text into so-called *canonical* token sequences, to which the LLMs assign probability values.One common assumption is that the probability of a piece of text is the probability of its canonical token sequence.However, the tokenization of a string is not unique: e.g., the Llama2 tokenizer encodes {`}Tokens{`} as {`}[Tok,ens]{`}, but {`}[Tok,en,s]{`} also represents the same text.In this paper, we study non-canonical tokenizations.We prove that, given a string, it is computationally hard to find the most likely tokenization for an autoregressive LLM, as well as to compute the marginal probability over all possible tokenizations.We then show how the marginal is, in most cases, indistinguishable from the canonical probability.Surprisingly, we then empirically demonstrate the existence of a significant amount of signal hidden within tokenization space.Notably, by simply aggregating the probabilities of non-canonical tokenizations, we achieve improvements across a range of LLM evaluation benchmarks for a variety of architectures, including transformers and state space models."}
{"Title": "Private Language Models via Truncated Laplacian Mechanism", "Abstract": "Recently it has been shown that deep learning models for NLP tasks are prone to attacks that can even reconstruct the verbatim training texts. To prevent privacy leakage, researchers have investigated word-level perturbations, relying on the formal guarantees of differential privacy (DP) in the embedding space. However, many existing approaches either achieve unsatisfactory performance in the high privacy regime when using the Laplacian or Gaussian mechanism, or resort to weaker relaxations of DP that are inferior to the canonical DP in terms of privacy strength. This raises the question of whether a new method for private word embedding can be designed to overcome these limitations. In this paper, we propose a novel private embedding method called the high dimensional truncated Laplacian mechanism. Specifically, we introduce a non-trivial extension of the truncated Laplacian mechanism, which was previously only investigated in one-dimensional space cases. Theoretically, we show that our method has a lower variance compared to the previous private word embedding methods. To further validate its effectiveness, we conduct comprehensive experiments on private embedding and downstream tasks using three datasets. Remarkably, even in the high privacy regime, our approach only incurs a slight decrease in utility compared to the non-private scenario."}
{"Title": "Estimating Knowledge in Large Language Models Without Generating a Single Token", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Consistent Autoformalization for Constructing Mathematical Libraries", "Abstract": "Autoformalization is the task of automatically translating mathematical content written in natural language to a formal language expression. The growing language interpretation capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs), including in formal languages, are lowering the barriers for autoformalization. However, LLMs alone are not capable of consistently and reliably delivering autoformalization, in particular as the complexity and specialization of the target domain grows. As the field evolves into the direction of systematically applying autoformalization towards large mathematical libraries, the need to improve syntactic, terminological and semantic control increases. This paper proposes the coordinated use of three mechanisms, most-similar retrieval augmented generation (MS-RAG), denoising steps, and auto-correction with syntax error feedback (Auto-SEF) to improve autoformalization quality. The empirical analysis, across different models, demonstrates that these mechanisms can deliver autoformalizaton results which are syntactically, terminologically and semantically more consistent. These mechanisms can be applied across different LLMs and have shown to deliver improve results across different model types."}
{"Title": "When Context Leads but Parametric Memory Follows in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable progress in leveraging diverse knowledge sources. This study investigates how nine widely used LLMs allocate knowledge between local context and global parameters when answering open-ended questions in knowledge-consistent scenarios. We introduce a novel dataset, WikiAtomic, and systematically vary context sizes to analyze how LLMs prioritize and utilize the provided information and their parametric knowledge in knowledge-consistent scenarios. Additionally, we also study their tendency to hallucinate under varying context sizes. Our findings reveal consistent patterns across models, including a consistent reliance on both contextual (around 70{\\%}) and parametric (around 30{\\%}) knowledge, and a decrease in hallucinations with increasing context. These insights highlight the importance of more effective context organization and developing models that use input more deterministically for robust performance."}
{"Title": "Semantic Training Signals Promote Hierarchical Syntactic Generalization in Transformers", "Abstract": "Neural networks without hierarchical biases often struggle to learn linguistic rules that come naturally to humans. However, neural networks are trained primarily on form alone, while children acquiring language additionally receive data about meaning. Would neural networks generalize more like humans when trained on both form and meaning? We investigate this by examining if Transformers{---}neural networks without a hierarchical bias{---}better achieve hierarchical generalization when trained on both form and meaning compared to when trained on form alone. Our results show that Transformers trained on form and meaning do favor the hierarchical generalization more than those trained on form alone, suggesting that statistical learners without hierarchical biases can leverage semantic training signals to bootstrap hierarchical syntactic generalization."}
{"Title": "When Is Multilinguality a Curse? Language Modeling for 250 High- and Low-Resource Languages", "Abstract": "Multilingual language models are widely used to extend NLP systems to low-resource languages. However, concrete evidence for the effects of multilinguality on language modeling performance in individual languages remains scarce. Here, we pre-train over 10,000 monolingual and multilingual language models for over 250 languages, including multiple language families that are under-studied in NLP. We assess how language modeling performance in each language varies as a function of (1) monolingual dataset size, (2) added multilingual dataset size, (3) linguistic similarity of the added languages, and (4) model size (up to 45M parameters). We find that in moderation, adding multilingual data improves low-resource language modeling performance, similar to increasing low-resource dataset sizes by up to 33{\\%}. Improvements depend on the syntactic similarity of the added multilingual data, with marginal additional effects of vocabulary overlap. However, high-resource languages consistently perform worse in multilingual pre-training scenarios. As dataset sizes increase, adding multilingual data begins to hurt performance for both low-resource and high-resource languages, likely due to limited model capacity (the {``}curse of multilinguality{''}). These results suggest that massively multilingual pre-training may not be optimal for any languages involved, but that more targeted models can significantly improve performance."}
{"Title": "Teaching Embodied Reinforcement Learning Agents: Informativeness and Diversity of Language Use", "Abstract": "In real-world scenarios, it is desirable for embodied agents to have the ability to leverage human language to gain explicit or implicit knowledge for learning tasks. Despite recent progress, most previous approaches adopt simple low-level instructions as language inputs, which may not reflect natural human communication. We expect human language to be informative (i.e., providing feedback on agents{'} past behaviors and offering guidance on achieving their future goals) and diverse (i.e., encompassing a wide range of expressions and style nuances). To enable flexibility of language use in teaching agents tasks, this paper studies different types of language inputs in facilitating reinforcement learning (RL) embodied agents. More specifically, we examine how different levels of language informativeness and diversity impact agent learning and inference. Our empirical results based on four RL benchmarks demonstrate that agents trained with diverse and informative language feedback can achieve enhanced generalization and fast adaptation to new tasks. These findings highlight the pivotal role of language use in teaching embodied agents new tasks in an open world."}
{"Title": "MiTTenS: A Dataset for Evaluating Gender Mistranslation", "Abstract": "Translation systems, including foundation models capable of translation, can produce errors that result in gender mistranslation, and such errors can be especially harmful. To measure the extent of such potential harms when translating into and out of English, we introduce a dataset, MiTTenS, covering 26 languages from a variety of language families and scripts, including several traditionally under-represented in digital resources. The dataset is constructed with handcrafted passages that target known failure patterns, longer synthetically generated passages, and natural passages sourced from multiple domains. We demonstrate the usefulness of the dataset by evaluating both neural machine translation systems and foundation models, and show that all systems exhibit gender mistranslation and potential harm, even in high resource languages."}
{"Title": "Teaching LLMs to Abstain across Languages via Multilingual Feedback", "Abstract": "Multilingual LLMs often have knowledge disparities across languages, with larger gaps in under-resourced languages. Teaching LLMs to abstain in the face of knowledge gaps is thus a promising strategy to mitigate hallucinations in multilingual settings. However, previous studies on LLM abstention primarily focus on English; we find that directly applying existing solutions beyond English results in up to 20.5{\\%} performance gaps between high and low-resource languages, potentially due to LLMs{'} drop in calibration and reasoning beyond a few resource-rich languages. To this end, we propose strategies to enhance LLM abstention by learning from multilingual feedback, where LLMs self-reflect on proposed answers in one language by generating multiple feedback items in related languages: we show that this helps identifying the knowledge gaps across diverse languages, cultures, and communities. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our multilingual feedback approach outperforms various strong baselines, achieving up to 9.2{\\%} improvement for low-resource languages across three black-box and open models on three datasets, featuring open-book, closed-book, and commonsense QA. Further analysis reveals that multilingual feedback is both an effective and a more equitable abstain strategy to serve diverse language speakers, and cultural factors have great impact on language selection and LLM abstention behavior, highlighting future directions for multilingual and multi-cultural reliable language modeling."}
{"Title": "Modular Pluralism: Pluralistic Alignment via Multi-LLM Collaboration", "Abstract": "While existing alignment paradigms have been integral in developing large language models (LLMs), LLMs often learn an averaged human preference and struggle to model diverse preferences across cultures, demographics, and communities. We propose Modular Pluralism, a modular framework based on multi-LLM collaboration for pluralistic alignment: it {``}plugs into{''} a base LLM a pool of smaller but specialized community LMs, where models collaborate in distinct modes to flexibility support three modes of pluralism: Overton, steerable, and distributional. Modular Pluralism is uniquely compatible with black-box LLMs and offers the modular control of adding new community LMs for previously underrepresented communities. We evaluate Modular Pluralism with six tasks and four datasets featuring questions/instructions with value-laden and perspective-informed responses. Extensive experiments demonstrate that Modular Pluralism advances the three pluralism objectives across six black-box and open-source LLMs. Further analysis reveals that LLMs are generally faithful to the inputs from smaller community LLMs, allowing seamless patching by adding a new community LM to better cover previously underrepresented communities."}
{"Title": "StyleRemix: Interpretable Authorship Obfuscation via Distillation and Perturbation of Style Elements", "Abstract": "Authorship obfuscation, rewriting a text to intentionally obscure the identity of the author, is important yet challenging. Current methods using large language models (LLMs) lack interpretability and controllability, often ignoring author-specific stylistic features, resulting in less robust performance overall.To address this, we develop StyleRemix, an adaptive and interpretable obfuscation method that perturbs specific, fine-grained style elements of the original input text. StyleRemix uses pre-trained Low Rank Adaptation (LoRA) modules to rewrite inputs along various stylistic axes (e.g., formality, length) while maintaining low computational costs. StyleRemix outperforms state-of-the-art baselines and much larger LLMs on an array of domains on both automatic and human evaluation.Additionally, we release AuthorMix, a large set of 30K high-quality, long-form texts from a diverse set of 14 authors and 4 domains, and DiSC, a parallel corpus of 1,500 texts spanning seven style axes in 16 unique directions."}
{"Title": "I Could've Asked That: Reformulating Unanswerable Questions", "Abstract": "When seeking information from unfamiliar documents, users frequently pose questions that cannot be answered by the documents. While existing large language models (LLMs) identify these unanswerable questions, they do not assist users in reformulating their questions, thereby reducing their overall utility. We curate CouldAsk, an evaluation benchmark composed of existing and new datasets for document-grounded question answering, specifically designed to study reformulating unanswerable questions. We evaluate state-of-the-art open-source and proprietary LLMs on CouldAsk. The results demonstrate the limited capabilities of these models in reformulating questions. Specifically, GPT-4 and Llama2-7B successfully reformulate questions only 26{\\%} and 12{\\%} of the time, respectively. Error analysis shows that 62{\\%} of the unsuccessful reformulations stem from the models merely rephrasing the questions or even generating identical questions. We publicly release the benchmark and the code to reproduce the experiments."}
{"Title": "STOP! Benchmarking Large Language Models with Sensitivity Testing on Offensive Progressions", "Abstract": "Mitigating explicit and implicit biases in Large Language Models (LLMs) has become a critical focus in the field of natural language processing. However, many current methodologies evaluate scenarios in isolation, without considering the broader context or the spectrum of potential biases within each situation. To address this, we introduce the Sensitivity Testing on Offensive Progressions (STOP) dataset, which includes 450 offensive progressions containing 2,700 unique sentences of varying severity that progressively escalate from less to more explicitly offensive. Covering a broad spectrum of 9 demographics and 46 sub-demographics, STOP ensures inclusivity and comprehensive coverage. We evaluate several leading closed- and open-source models, including GPT-4, Mixtral, and Llama 3. Our findings reveal that even the best-performing models detect bias inconsistently, with success rates ranging from 19.3{\\%} to 69.8{\\%}. Furthermore, we demonstrate how aligning models with human judgments on STOP can improve model answer rates on sensitive tasks such as BBQ, StereoSet, and CrowS-Pairs by up to 191{\\%}, while maintaining or even improving performance. STOP presents a novel framework for assessing the complex nature of biases in LLMs, which will enable more effective bias mitigation strategies and facilitates the creation of fairer language models."}
{"Title": "Hidden Persuaders: LLMs' Political Leaning and Their Influence on Voters", "Abstract": "Do LLMs have political leanings and are LLMs able to shift our political views? This paper explores these questions in the context of the 2024 U.S. presidential election. Through a voting simulation, we demonstrate 18 open-weight and closed-source LLMs{'} political preference for Biden over Trump. We show how Biden-leaning becomes more pronounced in instruction-tuned and reinforced models compared to their base versions by analyzing their responses to political questions related to the two nominees. We further explore the potential impact of LLMs on voter choice by recruiting 935 U.S. registered voters. Participants interacted with LLMs (Claude-3, Llama-3, and GPT-4) over five exchanges. Intriguingly, although LLMs were not asked to persuade users to support Biden, about 20{\\%} of Trump supporters reduced their support for Trump after LLM interaction. This result is noteworthy given that many studies on the persuasiveness of political campaigns have shown minimal effects in presidential elections. Many users also expressed a desire for further interaction with LLMs on political subjects. Further research on how LLMs affect users{'} political views is required, as their use becomes more widespread."}
{"Title": "SOUL: Unlocking the Power of Second-Order Optimization for LLM Unlearning", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have highlighted the necessity of effective unlearning mechanisms to comply with data regulations and ethical AI practices. LLM unlearning aims at removing undesired data influences and associated model capabilities without compromising utility beyond the scope of unlearning. While interest in studying LLM unlearning is growing, the impact of the optimizer choice for LLM unlearning remains unexplored. In this work, we shed light on the significance of optimizer selection in LLM unlearning for the first time, establishing a clear connection between second-order optimization and influence unlearning (a classical approach using influence functions to update the model for data influence removal). This insight propels us to develop a second-order optimization-based LLM unlearning framework, termed Second-Order UnLearning (SOUL), which extends the static, one-shot model update using influence unlearning to a dynamic, iterative unlearning process. Our extensive experiments show that SOUL consistently outperforms conventional first-order methods across various unlearning tasks, models, and metrics, indicating that second-order optimization offers an effective and broadly applicable solution for LLM unlearning."}
{"Title": "When Reasoning Meets Information Aggregation: A Case Study with Sports Narratives", "Abstract": "Reasoning is most powerful when an LLM accurately aggregates relevant information. We examine the critical role of information aggregation in reasoning by requiring the LLM to analyze sports narratives. To succeed at this task, an LLM must infer points from actions, identify related entities, attribute points accurately to players and teams, and compile key statistics to draw conclusions. We conduct comprehensive experiments with real NBA basketball data and present SportsGen, a new method to synthesize game narratives. By synthesizing data, we can rigorously evaluate LLMs{'} reasoning capabilities under complex scenarios with varying narrative lengths and density of information. Our findings show that most models, including GPT-4o, often fail to accurately aggregate basketball scores due to frequent scoring patterns. Open-source models like Llama-3 further suffer from significant score hallucinations. Finally, the effectiveness of reasoning is influenced by narrative complexity, information density, and domain-specific terms, highlighting the challenges in analytical reasoning tasks."}
{"Title": "An Analysis of Multilingual FActScore", "Abstract": "FActScore has gained popularity as a metric to estimate the factuality of long-form texts generated by Large Language Models (LLMs) in English. However, there has not been any work in studying the behavior of FActScore in other languages. This paper studies the limitations of each component in the four-component pipeline of FActScore in the multilingual setting. We introduce a new dataset for FActScore on texts generated by strong multilingual LLMs. Our evaluation shows that LLMs exhibit distinct behaviors in both fact extraction and fact scoring tasks. No LLM produces consistent and reliable FActScore across languages of varying levels of resources. We also find that the knowledge source plays an important role in the quality of the estimated FActScore. Using Wikipedia as the knowledge source may hinder the true FActScore of long-form text due to its limited coverage in medium- and low-resource languages. We also incorporate 3 mitigations to our knowledge source that ultimately improve FActScore estimation across all languages."}
{"Title": "Prometheus 2: An Open Source Language Model Specialized in Evaluating Other Language Models", "Abstract": "Proprietary LMs such as GPT-4 are often employed to assess the quality of responses from various LMs. However, concerns including transparency, controllability, and affordability strongly motivate the development of open-source LMs specialized in evaluations. On the other hand, existing open evaluator LMs exhibit critical shortcomings: 1) they issue scores that significantly diverge from those assigned by humans, and 2) they lack the flexibility to perform both direct assessment and pairwise ranking, the two most prevalent forms of assessment. Additionally, they do not possess the ability to evaluate based on custom evaluation criteria, focusing instead on general attributes like helpfulness and harmlessness. To address these issues, we introduce Prometheus 2, a more powerful evaluator LM than its predecessor that closely mirrors human and GPT-4 judgements. Moreover, it is capable of processing both direct assessment and pair-wise ranking formats grouped with a user-defined evaluation criteria. On four direct assessment benchmarks and four pairwise ranking benchmarks, Prometheus 2 scores the highest correlation and agreement with humans and proprietary LM judges among all tested open evaluator LMs. Our models, code, and data are all publicly available."}
{"Title": "RAG-QA Arena: Evaluating Domain Robustness for Long-form Retrieval Augmented Question Answering", "Abstract": "Question answering based on retrieval augmented generation (RAG-QA) is an important research topic in NLP and has a wide range of real-world applications. However, most existing datasets for this task are either constructed using a single source corpus or consist of short extractive answers, which fall short of evaluating large language model (LLM) based RAG-QA systems on cross-domain generalization. To address these limitations, we create Long-form RobustQA (LFRQA), a new dataset comprising human-written long-form answers that integrate short extractive answers from multiple documents into a single, coherent narrative, covering 26K queries and large corpora across seven different domains. We further propose RAG-QA Arena by directly comparing model-generated answers against LFRQA{'}s answers using LLMs as evaluators. We show via extensive experiments that RAG-QA Arena and human judgments on answer quality are highly correlated. Moreover, only 41.3{\\%} of the most competitive LLM{'}s answers are preferred to LFRQA{'}s answers, demonstrating RAG-QA Arena as a challenging evaluation platform for future research."}
{"Title": "PromptReps: Prompting Large Language Models to Generate Dense and Sparse Representations for Zero-Shot Document Retrieval", "Abstract": "Utilizing large language models (LLMs) for zero-shot document ranking is done in one of two ways: (1) prompt-based re-ranking methods, which require no further training but are only feasible for re-ranking a handful of candidate documents due to computational costs; and (2) unsupervised contrastive trained dense retrieval methods, which can retrieve relevant documents from the entire corpus but require a large amount of paired text data for contrastive training.In this paper, we propose PromptReps, which combines the advantages of both categories: no need for training and the ability to retrieve from the whole corpus. Our method only requires prompts to guide an LLM to generate query and document representations for effective document retrieval. Specifically, we prompt the LLMs to represent a given text using a single word, and then use the last token{'}s hidden states and the corresponding logits associated with the prediction of the next token to construct a hybrid document retrieval system. The retrieval system harnesses both dense text embedding and sparse bag-of-words representations given by the LLM.Our experimental evaluation on the MSMARCO, TREC deep learning and BEIR zero-shot document retrieval datasets illustrates that this simple prompt-based LLM retrieval method can achieve a similar or higher retrieval effectiveness than state-of-the-art LLM embedding methods that are trained with large amounts of unsupervised data, especially when using a larger LLM."}
{"Title": "Voices Unheard: NLP Resources and Models for Yor\u00f9b\u00e1 Regional Dialects", "Abstract": "Yoruba{---}an African language with roughly 47 million speakers{---}encompasses a continuum with several dialects. Recent efforts to develop NLP technologies for African languages have focused on their standard dialects, resulting in disparities for dialects and varieties for which there are little to no resources or tools. We take steps towards bridging this gap by introducing a new high-quality parallel text and speech corpus; YORULECT across three domains and four regional yoruba dialects. To develop this corpus, we engaged native speakers, traveling to communities where these dialects are spoken, to collect text and speech data. Using our newly created corpus, we conducted extensive experiments on (text) machine translation, automatic speech recognition, and speech-to-text translation. Our results reveal substantial performance disparities between standard yoruba and the other dialects across all tasks. However, we also show that with dialect-adaptive finetuning, we are able to narrow this gap. We believe our dataset and experimental analysis will contribute greatly to developing NLP tools for Yoruba and its dialects, and potentially for other African languages, by improving our understanding of existing challenges and offering a high-quality dataset for further development. We will release YORULECT dataset and models publicly under an open license."}
{"Title": "ARES: Alternating Reinforcement Learning and Supervised Fine-Tuning for Enhanced Multi-Modal Chain-of-Thought Reasoning Through Diverse AI Feedback", "Abstract": "Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) excel at comprehending human instructions and demonstrate remarkable results across a broad spectrum of tasks. Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) and AI Feedback (RLAIF) further refine LLMs by aligning them with specific preferences. These methods primarily use ranking-based feedback for entire generations. With advanced AI models (Teacher), such as GPT-4 and Claude 3 Opus, we can request various types of detailed feedback that are expensive for humans to provide. We propose a two-stage algorithm ARES that Alternates REinforcement Learning (RL) and Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT). First, we ask the Teacher to score how much each sentence contributes to solving the problem in a Chain-of-Thought (CoT). This sentence-level feedback allows us to consider individual valuable segments, providing more granular rewards for the RL procedure. Second, we ask the Teacher to correct wrong reasoning after the RL stage. The RL procedure requires substantial hyperparameter tuning and often generates errors such as repetitive words and incomplete sentences. With correction feedback, we stabilize the RL fine-tuned model through SFT. We conduct experiments on the multi-modal datasets ScienceQA and A-OKVQA to demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposal. The ARES rationale achieves around 70{\\%} win rate compared to baseline models judged by GPT-4o. Additionally, we observe that the improved rationale reasoning leads to a 2.5{\\%} increase in inference answer accuracy on average for the multi-modal datasets."}
{"Title": "Order of Magnitude Speedups for LLM Membership Inference", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have the promise to revolutionize computing broadly, but their complexity and extensive training data also expose significant privacy vulnerabilities. One of the simplest privacy risks associated with LLMs is their susceptibility to membership inference attacks (MIAs), wherein an adversary aims to determine whether a specific data point was part of the model{'}s training set. Although this is a known risk, state of the art methodologies for MIAs rely on training multiple computationally costly {`}shadow models{'}, making risk evaluation prohibitive for large models. Here we adapt a recent line of work which uses quantile regression to mount membership inference attacks; we extend this work by proposing a low-cost MIA that leverages an ensemble of small quantile regression models to determine if a document belongs to the model{'}s training set or not. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach on fine-tuned LLMs of varying families (OPT, Pythia, Llama) and across multiple datasets. Across all scenarios we obtain comparable or improved accuracy compared to state of the art {`}shadow model{'} approaches, with as little as 6{\\%} of their computation budget. We demonstrate increased effectiveness across multi-epoch trained target models, and architecture miss-specification robustness, that is, we can mount an effective attack against a model using a different tokenizer and architecture, without requiring knowledge on the target model."}
{"Title": "VIMI: Grounding Video Generation through Multi-modal Instruction", "Abstract": "Existing text-to-video diffusion models rely solely on text-only encoders for their pretraining. This limitation stems from the absence of large-scale multimodal prompt video datasets, resulting in a lack of visual grounding and restricting their versatility and application in multimodal integration. To address this, we construct a large-scale multimodal prompt dataset by employing retrieval methods to pair in-context examples with the given text prompts and then utilize a two-stage training strategy to enable diverse video generation tasks within a model. In the first stage, we propose a multimodal conditional video generation framework for pretraining on these augmented datasets, establishing a foundational model for grounded video generation. Secondly, we fine-tune the model from the first stage on various video generation tasks, incorporating multimodal instructions. This process further refines the model{'}s ability to handle diverse inputs and tasks, ensuring seamless integration of multimodal information. After this two-stage training process, VIMI demonstrates multimodal understanding capabilities, producing contextually rich and personalized videos grounded in the provided inputs, as shown in Figure1. Compared to previous subject-driven video generation methods, our generator can synthesize consistent and temporally coherent videos with large motion while retaining the semantic control. Our generator also achieves state-of-the-art text-to-video generation results on UCF101 benchmark."}
{"Title": "F^2RL: Factuality and Faithfulness Reinforcement Learning Framework for Claim-Guided Evidence-Supported Counterspeech Generation", "Abstract": "Hate speech (HS) on social media exacerbates misinformation and baseless prejudices. Evidence-supported counterspeech (CS) is crucial for correcting misinformation and reducing prejudices through facts. Existing methods for generating evidence-supported CS often lack clear guidance with a core claim for organizing evidence and do not adequately address factuality and faithfulness hallucinations in CS within anti-hate contexts. In this paper, to mitigate the aforementioned, we propose F$^2$RL, a Factuality and Faithfulness Reinforcement Learning framework for generating claim-guided and evidence-supported CS. Firstly, we generate counter-claims based on hate speech and design a self-evaluation mechanism to select the most appropriate one. Secondly, we propose a coarse-to-fine evidence retrieval method. This method initially generates broad queries to ensure the diversity of evidence, followed by carefully reranking the retrieved evidence to ensure its relevance to the claim. Finally, we design a reinforcement learning method with a triplet-based factuality reward model and a multi-aspect faithfulness reward model. The method rewards the generator to encourage greater factuality, more accurate refutation of hate speech, consistency with the claim, and better utilization of evidence. Extensive experiments on three benchmark datasets demonstrate that the proposed framework achieves excellent performance in CS generation, with strong factuality and faithfulness."}
{"Title": "Deciphering Rumors: A Multi-Task Learning Approach with Intent-aware Hierarchical Contrastive Learning", "Abstract": "Social networks are rife with noise and misleading information, presenting multifaceted challenges for rumor detection. In this paper, from the perspective of human cognitive subjectivity, we introduce the mining of individual latent intentions and propose a novel multi-task learning framework, the Intent-Aware Rumor Detection Network (IRDNet). IRDNet is designed to discern multi-level rumor semantic features and latent user intentions, addressing the challenges of robustness and key feature mining and alignment that plague existing models. In IRDNet, the multi-level semantic extraction module captures sequential and hierarchical features to generate robust semantic representations. The hierarchical contrastive learning module incorporates two complementary strategies, event-level and intent-level, to establish cognitive anchors that uncover the latent intentions of information disseminators. Event-level contrastive learning employs high-quality data augmentation and adversarial perturbations to enhance model robustness. Intent-level contrastive learning leverages the intent encoder to capture latent intent features and optimize consistency within the same intent while ensuring heterogeneity between different intents to clearly distinguish key features from irrelevant elements. Experimental results demonstrate that IRDNet significantly improves the effectiveness of rumor detection and effectively addresses the challenges present in the field of rumor detection."}
{"Title": "Visual Prompting in LLMs for Enhancing Emotion Recognition", "Abstract": "Vision Large Language Models (VLLMs) are transforming the intersection of computer vision and natural language processing; however, the potential of using visual prompts for emotion recognition in these models remains largely unexplored and untapped. Traditional methods in VLLMs struggle with spatial localization and often discard valuable global context. We propose a novel Set-of-Vision prompting (SoV) approach that enhances zero-shot emotion recognition by using spatial information, such as bounding boxes and facial landmarks, to mark targets precisely. SoV improves accuracy in face count and emotion categorization while preserving the enriched image context. Through comprehensive experimentation and analysis of recent commercial or open-source VLLMs, we evaluate the SoV model{'}s ability to comprehend facial expressions in natural environments. Our findings demonstrate the effectiveness of integrating spatial visual prompts into VLLMs for improving emotion recognition performance."}
{"Title": "IDEAW: Robust Neural Audio Watermarking with Invertible Dual-Embedding", "Abstract": "The audio watermarking technique embeds messages into audio and accurately extracts messages from the watermarked audio. Traditional methods develop algorithms based on expert experience to embed watermarks into the time-domain or transform-domain of signals. With the development of deep neural networks, deep learning-based neural audio watermarking has emerged. Compared to traditional algorithms, neural audio watermarking achieves better robustness by considering various attacks during training. However, current neural watermarking methods suffer from low capacity and unsatisfactory imperceptibility. Additionally, the issue of watermark locating, which is extremely important and even more pronounced in neural audio water- marking, has not been adequately studied. In this paper, we design a dual-embedding wa- termarking model for efficient locating. We also consider the impact of the attack layer on the invertible neural network in robustness training, improving the model to enhance both its reasonableness and stability. Experiments show that the proposed model, IDEAW, can withstand various attacks with higher capacity and more efficient locating ability compared to existing methods."}
{"Title": "Leveraging Conflicts in Social Media Posts: Unintended Offense Dataset", "Abstract": "In multi-person communications, conflicts often arise. Each individual may have their own perspective, which can differ. Additionally, commonly referenced offensive datasets frequently neglect contextual information and are primarily constructed with a focus on intended offenses. This study suggests that conflicts are pivotal in revealing a broader range of human interactions, including instances of unintended offensive language. This paper proposes a conflict-based data collection method to utilize inter-conflict cues in multi-person communications. By focusing on specific cue posts within conversation threads, our proposed approach effectively identifies relevant instances for analysis. Detailed analyses are provided to showcase the proposed approach efficiently gathers data on subtly offensive content. The experimental results indicate that incorporating elements of conflict into data collection significantly enhances the comprehensiveness and accuracy of detecting offensive language but also enriches our understanding of conflict dynamics in digital communication."}
{"Title": "Outcome-Constrained Large Language Models for Countering Hate Speech", "Abstract": "Automatic counterspeech generation methods have been developed to assist efforts in combating hate speech. Existing research focuses on generating counterspeech with linguistic attributes such as being polite, informative, and intent-driven. However, the real impact of counterspeech in online environments is seldom considered. This study aims to develop methods for generating counterspeech constrained by conversation outcomes and evaluate their effectiveness. We experiment with large language models (LLMs) to incorporate into the text generation process two desired conversation outcomes: low conversation incivility and non-hateful hater reentry. Specifically, we experiment with instruction prompts, LLM finetuning, and LLM reinforcement learning (RL). Evaluation results show that our methods effectively steer the generation of counterspeech toward the desired outcomes. Our analyses, however, show that there are differences in the quality and style depending on the model."}
{"Title": "Multiple Sources are Better Than One: Incorporating External Knowledge in Low-Resource Glossing", "Abstract": "In this paper, we address the data scarcity problem in automatic data-driven glossing for low-resource languages by coordinating multiple sources of linguistic expertise. We enhance models by incorporating both token-level and sentence-level translations, utilizing the extensive linguistic capabilities of modern LLMs, and incorporating available dictionary resources. Our enhancements lead to an average absolute improvement of 5{\\%}-points in word-level accuracy over the previous state of the art on a typologically diverse dataset spanning six low-resource languages. The improvements are particularly noticeable for the lowest-resourced language Gitksan, where we achieve a 10{\\%}-point improvement. Furthermore, in a simulated ultra-low resource setting for the same six languages, training on fewer than 100 glossed sentences, we establish an average 10{\\%}-point improvement in word-level accuracy over the previous state-of-the-art system."}
{"Title": "Adaptive Immune-based Sound-Shape Code Substitution for Adversarial Chinese Text Attacks", "Abstract": "Adversarial textual examples reveal the vulnerability of natural language processing (NLP) models. Most existing text attack methods are designed for English text, while the robust implementation of the second popular language, i.e., Chinese with 1 billion users, is greatly underestimated. Although several Chinese attack methods have been presented, they either directly transfer from English attacks or adopt simple greedy search to optimize the attack priority, usually leading to unnatural sentences. To address these issues, we propose an adaptive Immune-based Sound-Shape Code (ISSC) algorithm for adversarial Chinese text attacks. Firstly, we leverage the Sound-Shape code to generate natural substitutions, which comprehensively integrate multiple Chinese features. Secondly, we employ adaptive immune algorithm (IA) to determine the replacement order, which can reduce the duplication of population to improve the search ability. Extensive experimental results validate the superiority of our ISSC in producing high-quality Chinese adversarial texts. Our code and data can be found in https://github.com/nohuma/chinese-attack-issc."}
{"Title": "Bootstrapped Policy Learning for Task-oriented Dialogue through Goal Shaping", "Abstract": "Reinforcement learning shows promise in optimizing dialogue policies, but addressing the challenge of reward sparsity remains crucial. While curriculum learning offers a practical solution by strategically training policies from simple to complex, it hinges on the assumption of a gradual increase in goal difficulty to ensure a smooth knowledge transition across varied complexities. In complex dialogue environments without intermediate goals, achieving seamless knowledge transitions becomes tricky. This paper proposes a novel Bootstrapped Policy Learning (BPL) framework, which adaptively tailors progressively challenging subgoal curriculum for each complex goal through goal shaping, ensuring a smooth knowledge transition. Goal shaping involves goal decomposition and evolution, decomposing complex goals into subgoals with solvable maximum difficulty and progressively increasing difficulty as the policy improves. Moreover, to enhance BPL{'}s adaptability across various environments, we explore various combinations of goal decomposition and evolution within BPL, and identify two universal curriculum patterns that remain effective across different dialogue environments, independent of specific environmental constraints. By integrating the summarized curriculum patterns, our BPL has exhibited efficacy and versatility across four publicly available datasets with different difficulty levels."}
{"Title": "PsyGUARD: An Automated System for Suicide Detection and Risk Assessment in Psychological Counseling", "Abstract": "As awareness of mental health issues grows, online counseling support services are becoming increasingly prevalent worldwide. Detecting whether users express suicidal ideation in text-based counseling services is crucial for identifying and prioritizing at-risk individuals. However, the lack of domain-specific systems to facilitate fine-grained suicide detection and corresponding risk assessment in online counseling poses a significant challenge for automated crisis intervention aimed at suicide prevention. In this paper, we propose PsyGUARD, an automated system for detecting suicide ideation and assessing risk in psychological counseling. To achieve this, we first develop a detailed taxonomy for detecting suicide ideation based on foundational theories. We then curate a large-scale, high-quality dataset called PsySUICIDE for suicide detection. To evaluate the capabilities of automated systems in fine-grained suicide detection, we establish a range of baselines. Subsequently, to assist automated services in providing safe, helpful, and tailored responses for further assessment, we propose to build a suite of risk assessment frameworks. Our study not only provides an insightful analysis of the effectiveness of automated risk assessment systems based on fine-grained suicide detection but also highlights their potential to improve mental health services on online counseling platforms. Code, data, and models are available at https://github.com/qiuhuachuan/PsyGUARD."}
{"Title": "World to Code: Multi-modal Data Generation via Self-Instructed Compositional Captioning and Filtering", "Abstract": "Recent advances in Vision-Language Models (VLMs) and the scarcity of high-quality multi-modal alignment data have inspired numerous researches on synthetic VLM data generation. The conventional norm in VLM data construction uses a mixture of specialists in caption and OCR, or stronger VLM APIs and expensive human annotation.In this paper, we present World to Code ($W2C$), a meticulously curated multi-modal data construction pipeline that organizes the final generation output into a Python code format. The pipeline leverages the VLM itself to extract cross-modal information via different prompts and filter the generated outputs again via a consistency filtering strategy. Experiments have demonstrated the high quality of $W2C$ by improving various existing visual question answering and visual grounding benchmarks across different VLMs. Further analysis also demonstrates that the new code parsing ability of VLMs presents better cross-modal equivalence than the commonly used detail caption ability. Our code is available at https://github.com/foundation-multimodal-models/World2Code."}
{"Title": "DVD: Dynamic Contrastive Decoding for Knowledge Amplification in Multi-Document Question Answering", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are widely used in question-answering (QA) systems but often generate information with hallucinations. Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) offers a potential remedy, yet the uneven retrieval quality and irrelevant contents may distract LLMs.In this work, we address these issues at the generation phase by treating RAG as a multi-document QA task.We propose a novel decoding strategy, Dynamic Contrastive Decoding, which dynamically amplifies knowledge from selected documents during the generation phase. involves constructing inputs batchwise, designing new selection criteria to identify documents worth amplifying, and applying contrastive decoding with a specialized weight calculation to adjust the final logits used for sampling answer tokens. Zero-shot experimental results on ALCE-ASQA, NQ, TQA and PopQA benchmarks show that our method outperforms other decoding strategies. Additionally, we conduct experiments to validate the effectiveness of our selection criteria, weight calculation, and general multi-document scenarios. Our method requires no training and can be integrated with other methods to improve the RAG performance. Our codes will be publicly available at https://github.com/JulieJin-km/Dynamic{\\_}Contrastive{\\_}Decoding."}
{"Title": "How Do Humans Write Code? Large Models Do It the Same Way Too", "Abstract": "Program-of-Thought (PoT) replaces natural language-based Chain-of-Thought (CoT) as the most popular method in Large Language Models (LLMs) mathematical reasoning tasks by utilizing external tool calls to circumvent computational errors. However, our evaluation of the GPT-4 and Llama series reveals that using PoT introduces more reasoning errors, such as incorrect formulas or flawed logic, compared to CoT. To address this issue, we propose Human-Think Language (HTL), which leverages a suite of strategies that help integrate PoT and CoT, encompassing: (1) a new generation paradigm that uses full CoT reasoning to control code generation. (2) Focus Attention, that directs model attention to the CoT reasoning during PoT to generate more logical code. (3) reinforcement learning that utilizes the accuracy of both CoT and PoT responses as rewards to prevent repetitive reasoning steps in LLMs when solving difficult math problems. Our method achieves an average improvement of 6.5{\\%} on the Llama-Base model and 4.3{\\%} on the Mistral-Base model across 8 mathematical calculation datasets. It also shows significant effectiveness on five out-of-domain datasets by controlling the model{'}s information flow, exhibiting strong transferability. Additionally, HTL shows the most significant improvement in non-mathematical natural language inference task, contributing to a unified reasoning task framework."}
{"Title": "Retrospex: Language Agent Meets Offline Reinforcement Learning Critic", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) possess extensive knowledge and commonsense reasoning capabilities, making them valuable for creating powerful agents. However, existing LLM agent frameworks have not fully utilized past experiences for improvement. This work introduces a new LLM-based agent framework called Retrospex, which addresses this challenge by analyzing past experiences in depth. Unlike previous approaches, Retrospex does not directly integrate experiences into the LLM{'}s context. Instead, it combines the LLM{'}s action likelihood with action values estimated by a Reinforcement Learning (RL) Critic, which is trained on past experiences through an offline {``}retrospection{''} process. Additionally, Retrospex employs a dynamic action rescoring mechanism that increases the importance of experience-based values for tasks that require more interaction with the environment. We evaluate Retrospex in ScienceWorld, ALFWorld and Webshop environments, demonstrating its advantages over strong baselines."}
{"Title": "Forgetting Curve: A Reliable Method for Evaluating Memorization Capability for Long-Context Models", "Abstract": "Numerous recent works target to extend effective context length for language models and various methods, tasks and benchmarks exist to measure model{'}s effective memory length. However, through thorough investigations, we find limitations for currently existing evaluations on model{'}s memory. We provide an extensive survey for limitations in this work and propose a new method called forgetting curve to measure the memorization capability of long-context models. We show that forgetting curve has the advantage of being robust to the tested corpus and the experimental settings, of not relying on prompt and can be applied to any model size. We apply our forgetting curve to a large variety of models involving both transformer and RNN/SSM based architectures. Our measurement provides empirical evidence for the effectiveness of transformer extension techniques while raises questions for the effective length of RNN/SSM based models. We also examine the difference between our measurement and existing benchmarks as well as popular metrics for various models."}
{"Title": "Retrieve-Plan-Generation: An Iterative Planning and Answering Framework for Knowledge-Intensive LLM Generation", "Abstract": "Despite the significant progress of large language models (LLMs) in various tasks, they often produce factual errors due to their limited internal knowledge. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), which enhances LLMs with external knowledge sources, offers a promising solution. However, these methods can be misled by irrelevant paragraphs in retrieved documents. Due to the inherent uncertainty in LLM generation, inputting the entire document may introduce off-topic information, causing the model to deviate from the central topic and affecting the relevance of the generated content. To address these issues, we propose the Retrieve-Plan-Generation (RPG) framework. RPG generates plan tokens to guide subsequent generation in the plan stage. In the answer stage, the model selects relevant fine-grained paragraphs based on the plan and uses them for further answer generation. This plan-answer process is repeated iteratively until completion, enhancing generation relevance by focusing on specific topics. To implement this framework efficiently, we utilize a simple but effective multi-task prompt-tuning method, enabling the existing LLMs to handle both planning and answering. We comprehensively compare RPG with baselines across 5 knowledge-intensive generation tasks, demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach."}
{"Title": "CoEvol: Constructing Better Responses for Instruction Finetuning through Multi-Agent Cooperation", "Abstract": "In recent years, instruction fine-tuning (IFT) on large language models (LLMs) has garnered considerable attention to enhance model performance on unseen tasks. Attempts have been made on automatic construction and effective selection for IFT data. However, we posit that previous methods have not fully harnessed the potential of LLMs for enhancing data quality. The responses within IFT data could be further enhanced by leveraging the capabilities of LLMs themselves.In this paper, we propose CoEvol, an LLM-based multi-agent cooperation framework for the improvement of responses for instructions. To effectively refine the responses, we develop an iterative framework following a {\\_}debate-advise-edit-judge{\\_} paradigm. A two-stage multi-agent debate strategy is further devised to ensure the diversity and reliability of editing suggestions within the framework. Empirically, models equipped with CoEvol outperform competitive baselines evaluated by MT-Bench and AlpacaEval, demonstrating its effectiveness in enhancing instruction-following capabilities for LLMs."}
{"Title": "A Peek into Token Bias: Large Language Models Are Not Yet Genuine Reasoners", "Abstract": "This study introduces a hypothesis-testing framework to assess whether large language models (LLMs) possess genuine reasoning abilities or primarily depend on token bias. We go beyond evaluating LLMs on accuracy; rather, we aim to investigate their token bias in solving logical reasoning tasks. Specifically, we develop carefully controlled synthetic datasets, featuring conjunction fallacy and syllogistic problems. Our framework outlines a list of hypotheses where token biases are readily identifiable, with all null hypotheses assuming genuine reasoning capabilities of LLMs. The findings in this study suggest, with statistical guarantee, that most LLMs still struggle with logical reasoning. While they may perform well on classic problems, their success largely depends on recognizing superficial patterns with strong token bias, thereby raising concerns about their actual reasoning and generalization abilities."}
{"Title": "Bayesian Calibration of Win Rate Estimation with LLM Evaluators", "Abstract": "Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) show the potential of using LLMs as evaluators for assessing the quality of text generations from LLMs. However, applying LLM evaluators naively to compare different systems can lead to unreliable results due to the inaccuracy and intrinsic bias of LLM evaluators. In order to mitigate this problem, we propose two calibration methods, Bayesian Win-Rate Sampling (BWRS) and Bayesian Dawid-Skene, both of which leverage Bayesian inference to more accurately infer the true win rate of generative language models. We empirically validate our methods on six datasets covering story generation, summarization, and instruction following tasks. We show that both our methods are effective in improving the accuracy of win rate estimation using LLMs as evaluators, offering a promising direction for reliable automatic text quality evaluation."}
{"Title": "MuMath-Code: Combining Tool-Use Large Language Models with Multi-perspective Data Augmentation for Mathematical Reasoning", "Abstract": "The tool-use Large Language Models (LLMs) that integrate with external Python interpreters have significantly enhanced mathematical reasoning capabilities for open-source LLMs, while tool-free methods chose another track: augmenting math reasoning data. However, a great method to integrate the above two research paths and combine their advantages remains to be explored. In this work, we firstly include new math questions via **mu**lti-perspective data augmenting methods and then synthesize **code**-nested solutions to them. The open LLMs (e.g., Llama-2) are finetuned on the augmented dataset to get the resulting models, **MuMath-Code** ($\\mu$-Math-Code). During the inference phase, our MuMath-Code generates code and interacts with the external python interpreter to get the execution results. Therefore, MuMath-Code leverages the advantages of both the external tool and data augmentation. To fully leverage the advantages of our augmented data, we propose a two-stage training strategy: In Stage-1, we finetune Llama-2 on pure CoT data to get an intermediate model, which then is trained on the code-nested data in Stage-2 to get the resulting MuMath-Code.Our MuMath-Code-7B achieves 83.8{\\%} on GSM8K and 52.4{\\%} on MATH, while MuMath-Code-70B model achieves new state-of-the-art performance among open methods{---}achieving 90.7{\\%} on GSM8K and 55.1{\\%} on MATH. Extensive experiments validate the combination of tool use and data augmentation, as well as our two-stage training strategy.We release the proposed dataset along with the associated code for public use: https://github.com/youweihao-tal/MuMath-Code."}
{"Title": "Seeing the Forest through the Trees: Data Leakage from Partial Transformer Gradients", "Abstract": "Recent studies have shown that distributed machine learning is vulnerable to gradient inversion attacks, where private training data can be reconstructed by analyzing the gradients of the models shared in training. Previous attacks established that such reconstructions are possible using gradients from all parameters in the entire models. However, we hypothesize that most of the involved modules, or even their sub-modules, are at risk of training data leakage, and we validate such vulnerabilities in various intermediate layers of language models. Our extensive experiments reveal that gradients from a single Transformer layer, or even a single linear component with 0.54{\\%} parameters, are susceptible to training data leakage. Additionally, we show that applying differential privacy on gradients during training offers limited protection against the novel vulnerability of data disclosure."}
{"Title": "RWKV-CLIP: A Robust Vision-Language Representation Learner", "Abstract": "Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) has significantly improved performance in various vision-language tasks by expanding the dataset with image-text pairs obtained from the web. This paper further explores CLIP from the perspectives of data and model architecture. To mitigate the impact of the noise data and enhance the quality of large-scale image-text data crawled from the internet, we introduce a diverse description generation framework that can leverage Large Language Models (LLMs) to combine and refine information from web-based image-text pairs, synthetic captions, and detection tags. Additionally, we propose RWKV-CLIP, the first RWKV-driven vision-language representation learning model that combines the effective parallel training of transformers with the efficient inference of RNNs. Extensive experiments across different model scales and pre-training datasets demonstrate that RWKV-CLIP is a robust vision-language representation learner and it achieves state-of-the-art performance across multiple downstream tasks, including linear probing, zero-shot classification, and zero-shot image-text retrieval. To facilitate future research, the code and pre-trained models are released at https://github.com/deepglint/RWKV-CLIP."}
{"Title": "KidLM: Advancing Language Models for Children \u2013 Early Insights and Future Directions", "Abstract": "Recent studies highlight the potential of large language models in creating educational tools for children, yet significant challenges remain in maintaining key child-specific properties such as linguistic nuances, cognitive needs, and safety standards. In this paper, we explore foundational steps toward the development of child-specific language models, emphasizing the necessity of high-quality pre-training data. We introduce a novel user-centric data collection pipeline that involves gathering and validating a corpus specifically written for and sometimes by children. Additionally, we propose a new training objective, Stratified Masking, which dynamically adjusts masking probabilities based on our domain-specific child language data, enabling models to prioritize vocabulary and concepts more suitable for children. Experimental evaluations demonstrate that our model excels in understanding lower grade-level text, maintains safety by avoiding stereotypes, and captures children{'}s unique preferences. Furthermore, we provide actionable insights for future research and development in child-specific language modeling."}
{"Title": "Using Language Models to Disambiguate Lexical Choices in Translation", "Abstract": "In translation, a concept represented by a single word in a source language can have multiple variations in a target language. The task of lexical selection requires using context to identify which variation is most appropriate for a source text. We work with native speakers of nine languages to create DTAiLS, a dataset of 1,377 sentence pairs that exhibit cross-lingual concept variation when translating from English. We evaluate recent LLMs and neural machine translation systems on DTAiLS, with the best-performing model, GPT-4, achieving from 67 to 85{\\%} accuracy across languages. Finally, we use language models to generate English rules describing target-language concept variations. Providing weaker models with high-quality lexical rules improves accuracy substantially, in some cases reaching or outperforming GPT-4."}
{"Title": "How Does the Disclosure of AI Assistance Affect the Perceptions of Writing?", "Abstract": "Recent advances in generative AI technologies like large language models have boosted the incorporation of AI assistance in writing workflows, leading to the rise of a new paradigm of human-AI co-creation in writing. To understand how people perceive writings that are produced under this paradigm, in this paper, we conduct an experimental study to understand whether and how the disclosure of the level and type of AI assistance in the writing process would affect people{'}s perceptions of the writing on various aspects, including their evaluation on the quality of the writing, and their ranking of different writings. Our results suggest that disclosing the AI assistance in the writing process, especially if AI has provided assistance in generating new content, decreases the average quality ratings for both argumentative essays and creative stories. This decrease in the average quality ratings often comes with an increased level of variations in different individuals{'} quality evaluations of the same writing. Indeed, factors such as an individual{'}s writing confidence and familiarity with AI writing assistants are shown to moderate the impact of AI assistance disclosure on their writing quality evaluations. We also find that disclosing the use of AI assistance may significantly reduce the proportion of writings produced with AI{'}s content generation assistance among the top-ranked writings."}
{"Title": "An Unsupervised Approach to Achieve Supervised-Level Explainability in Healthcare Records", "Abstract": "Electronic healthcare records are vital for patient safety as they document conditions, plans, and procedures in both free text and medical codes. Language models have significantly enhanced the processing of such records, streamlining workflows and reducing manual data entry, thereby saving healthcare providers significant resources. However, the black-box nature of these models often leaves healthcare professionals hesitant to trust them. State-of-the-art explainability methods increase model transparency but rely on human-annotated evidence spans, which are costly. In this study, we propose an approach to produce plausible and faithful explanations without needing such annotations. We demonstrate on the automated medical coding task that adversarial robustness training improves explanation plausibility and introduce AttInGrad, a new explanation method superior to previous ones. By combining both contributions in a fully unsupervised setup, we produce explanations of comparable quality, or better, to that of a supervised approach. We release our code and model weights."}
{"Title": "Crafting Personalized Agents through Retrieval-Augmented Generation on Editable Memory Graphs", "Abstract": "In the age of mobile internet, user data, often referred to as memories, is continuously generated on personal devices. Effectively managing and utilizing this data to deliver services to users is a compelling research topic. In this paper, we introduce a novel task of crafting personalized agents powered by large language models (LLMs), which utilize a user{'}s smartphone memories to enhance downstream applications with advanced LLM capabilities. To achieve this goal, we introduce EMG-RAG, a solution that combines Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) techniques with an Editable Memory Graph (EMG). This approach is further optimized using Reinforcement Learning to address three distinct challenges: data collection, editability, and selectability. Extensive experiments on a real-world dataset validate the effectiveness of EMG-RAG, achieving an improvement of approximately 10{\\%} over the best existing approach. Additionally, the personalized agents have been transferred into a real smartphone AI assistant, which leads to enhanced usability."}
{"Title": "EVEDIT: Event-based Knowledge Editing for Deterministic Knowledge Propagation", "Abstract": "The dynamic nature of real-world information necessitates knowledge editing (KE) in large language models (LLMs). The edited knowledge should propagate and facilitate the deduction of new information based on existing model knowledge. We term the existing related knowledge in LLM serving as the origination of knowledge propagation as {''}deduction anchors{''}. However, current KE approaches, which only operate on (subject, relation, object) triple. We both theoretically and empirically observe that this simplified setting often leads to uncertainty when determining the deduction anchors, causing low confidence in their answers. To mitigate this issue, we propose a novel task of event-based knowledge editing that pairs facts with event descriptions. This task manifests not only a closer simulation of real-world editing scenarios but also a more logically sound setting, implicitly defining the deduction anchor and enabling LLMs to propagate knowledge confidently. We curate a new benchmark dataset Evedit derived from the CounterFact dataset and validate its superiority in improving model confidence. Moreover, while we observe that the event-based setting is significantly challenging for existing approaches, we propose a novel approach Self-Edit that showcases stronger performance, achieving 55.6{\\%} consistency improvement while maintaining the naturalness of generation."}
{"Title": "Modeling Nonnative Sentence Processing with L2 Language Models", "Abstract": "We study LMs pretrained sequentially on two languages ({``}L2LMs{''}) for modeling nonnative sentence processing. In particular, we pretrain GPT2 on 6 different first languages (L1s), followed by English as the second language (L2). We examine the effect of the choice of pretraining L1 on the model{'}s ability to predict human reading times, evaluating on English readers from a range of L1 backgrounds. Experimental results show that, while all of the LMs{'} word surprisals improve prediction of L2 reading times, especially for human L1s distant from English, there is no reliable effect of the choice of L2LM{'}s L1. We also evaluate the learning trajectory of a monolingual English LM: for predicting L2 as opposed to L1 reading, it peaks much earlier and immediately falls off, possibly mirroring the difference in proficiency between the native and nonnative populations. Lastly, we provide examples of L2LMs{'} surprisals, which could potentially generate hypotheses about human L2 reading."}
{"Title": "From the Least to the Most: Building a Plug-and-Play Visual Reasoner via Data Synthesis", "Abstract": "We explore multi-step reasoning in vision-language models (VLMs). The problem is challenging, as reasoning data consisting of multiple steps of visual and language processing are barely available. To overcome the challenge, we first introduce a least-to-most visual reasoning paradigm, which interleaves steps of decomposing a question into sub-questions and invoking external tools for resolving sub-questions. Based on the paradigm, we further propose a novel data synthesis approach that can automatically create questions and multi-step reasoning paths for an image in a bottom-up manner. Our approach divides the complex synthesis task into a few simple sub-tasks, and (almost entirely) relies on open-sourced models to accomplish the sub-tasks. Therefore, the entire synthesis process is reproducible and cost-efficient, and the synthesized data is quality guaranteed. With the approach, we construct 50k visual reasoning examples. Then, we develop a visual reasoner through supervised fine-tuning, which is capable of generally enhancing the reasoning abilities of a wide range of existing VLMs in a plug-and-play fashion. Extensive experiments indicate that the visual reasoner can consistently and significantly improve four VLMs on four VQA benchmarks."}
{"Title": "Quality Matters: Evaluating Synthetic Data for Tool-Using LLMs", "Abstract": "Training large language models (LLMs) for external tool usage is a rapidly expanding field, with recent research focusing on generating synthetic data to address the shortage of available data. However, the absence of systematic data quality checks poses complications for properly training and testing models. To that end, we propose two approaches for assessing the reliability of data for training LLMs to use external tools. The first approach uses intuitive, human-defined correctness criteria. The second approach uses a model-driven assessment with in-context evaluation. We conduct a thorough evaluation of data quality on two popular benchmarks, followed by an extrinsic evaluation that showcases the impact of data quality on model performance. Our results demonstrate that models trained on high-quality data outperform those trained on unvalidated data, even when trained with a smaller quantity of data. These findings empirically support the significance of assessing and ensuring the reliability of training data for tool-using LLMs."}
{"Title": "Cross-Domain Audio Deepfake Detection: Dataset and Analysis", "Abstract": "Audio deepfake detection (ADD) is essential for preventing the misuse of synthetic voices that may infringe on personal rights and privacy. Recent zero-shot text-to-speech (TTS) models pose higher risks as they can clone voices with a single utterance. However, the existing ADD datasets are outdated, leading to suboptimal generalization of detection models. In this paper, we construct a new cross-domain ADD dataset comprising over 300 hours of speech data that is generated by five advanced zero-shot TTS models. To simulate real-world scenarios, we employ diverse attack methods and audio prompts from different datasets. Experiments show that, through novel attack-augmented training, the Wav2Vec2-large and Whisper-medium models achieve equal error rates of 4.1{\\%} and 6.5{\\%} respectively. Additionally, we demonstrate our models{'} outstanding few-shot ADD ability by fine-tuning with just one minute of target-domain data. Nonetheless, neural codec compressors greatly affect the detection accuracy, necessitating further research. Our dataset is publicly available (https://github.com/leolya/CD-ADD)."}
{"Title": "MaPPER: Multimodal Prior-guided Parameter Efficient Tuning for Referring Expression Comprehension", "Abstract": "Referring Expression Comprehension (REC), which aims to ground a local visual region via natural language, is a task that heavily relies on multimodal alignment. Most existing methods utilize powerful pre-trained models to transfer visual/linguistic knowledge by full fine-tuning. However, full fine-tuning the entire backbone not only breaks the rich prior knowledge embedded in the pre-training, but also incurs significant computational costs. Motivated by the recent emergence of Parameter-Efficient Transfer Learning (PETL) methods, we aim to solve the REC task in an effective and efficient manner. Directly applying these PETL methods to the REC task is inappropriate, as they lack the specific-domain abilities for precise local visual perception and visual-language alignment. Therefore, we propose a novel framework of Multimodal Prior-guided Parameter Efficient Tuning, namely MaPPER. Specifically, MaPPER comprises Dynamic Prior Adapters guided by a aligned prior, and Local Convolution Adapters to extract precise local semantics for better visual perception. Moreover, the Prior-Guided Text module is proposed to further utilize the prior for facilitating the cross-modal alignment. Experimental results on three widely-used benchmarks demonstrate that MaPPER achieves the best accuracy compared to the full fine-tuning and other PETL methods with only 1.41{\\%} tunable backbone parameters."}
{"Title": "Hierarchical Deconstruction of LLM Reasoning: A Graph-Based Framework for Analyzing Knowledge Utilization", "Abstract": "Despite the advances in large language models (LLMs), how they use their knowledge for reasoning is not yet well understood.In this study, we propose a method that deconstructs complex real-world questions into a graph, representing each question as a node with predecessors of background knowledge needed to solve the question. We develop the DepthQA dataset, deconstructing questions into three depths: (i) recalling conceptual knowledge, (ii) applying procedural knowledge, and (iii) analyzing strategic knowledge. Based on a hierarchical graph, we quantify forward discrepancy, a discrepancy in LLM performance on simpler sub-problems versus complex questions. We also measure backward discrepancy where LLMs answer complex questions but struggle with simpler ones. Our analysis shows that smaller models exhibit more discrepancies than larger models. Distinct patterns of discrepancies are observed across model capacity and possibility of training data memorization. Additionally, guiding models from simpler to complex questions through multi-turn interactions improves performance across model sizes, highlighting the importance of structured intermediate steps in knowledge reasoning. This work enhances our understanding of LLM reasoning and suggests ways to improve their problem-solving abilities."}
{"Title": "Aligning Translation-Specific Understanding to General Understanding in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large Language models (LLMs) have exhibited remarkable abilities in understanding complex texts, offering a promising path towards human-like translation performance. However, this study reveals the misalignment between the translation-specific understanding and the general understanding inside LLMs. This understanding misalignment leads to LLMs mistakenly or literally translating some complicated concepts that they accurately comprehend in the general scenarios (e.g., QA). To align the translation-specific understanding to the general one, we propose a novel translation process, DUAT (Difficult words Understanding Aligned Translation), explicitly incorporating the general understanding on the complicated content incurring inconsistent understandings to guide the translation. Specifically, DUAT performs cross-lingual interpretation for the difficult-to-translate words and enhances the translation with the generated interpretations. Furthermore, we reframe the external tools to improve DUAT in detecting difficult words and generating helpful interpretations. We conduct experiments on the self-constructed benchmark Challenge-WMT, consisting of samples that are prone to mistranslation. Human evaluation results on high-resource and low-resource language pairs indicate that DUAT significantly facilitates the understanding alignment, which improves the translation quality (up to +3.85 COMET) and reduces translation literalness by -25{\\%} \u00e2\u0088\u00bc -51{\\%}."}
{"Title": "FOOL ME IF YOU CAN! An Adversarial Dataset to Investigate the Robustness of LMs in Word Sense Disambiguation", "Abstract": "Word sense disambiguation (WSD) is a key task in natural language processing and lexical semantics. Pre-trained language models with contextualized word embeddings have significantly improved performance in regular WSD tasks. However, these models still struggle with recognizing semantic boundaries and often misclassify homonyms in adversarial context. Therefore, we propose FOOL: FOur-fold Obscure Lexical, a new coarse-grained WSD dataset, which includes four different test sets designed to assess the robustness of language models in WSD tasks. Two sets feature typical WSD scenarios, while the other two include sentences with opposing contexts to challenge the models further.We tested two types of models on the proposed dataset: models with encoders, such as the BERT and T5 series of varying sizes by probing their embeddings, and state-of-the-art large decoder models like GPT-4o and the LlaMA3 family, using zero shot prompting. Across different state-of-the-art language models, we observed a decrease in performance in the latter two sets compared to the first two, with some models being affected more than others. We show interesting findings where small models like T5-large and BERT-large performed better than GPT-4o on Set 3 of the dataset. This indicates that, despite excelling in regular WSD tasks, these models still struggle to correctly disambiguate homonyms in artificial (Set 3) or realistic adversarial contexts (Set 4)."}
{"Title": "Concept-skill Transferability-based Data Selection for Large Vision-Language Models", "Abstract": "Instruction tuning, or supervised finetuning on extensive task-specific data, is necessary for Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) to generalize well across a broad range of vision-language (VL) tasks. However, training on large VL datasets can become prohibitively expensive. In this work, we introduce COINCIDE, an effective and scalable data selection technique that uses a small model as a reference model to select visual instruction tuning data for efficient finetuning of a target LVLM, focusing on diversity and transferability. Specifically, we cluster the training data using internal activations from a small model, which identifies VL concept-skill compositions needed by a target LVLM. We then sample data from these diverse clusters by considering their density and transferability, or the ability to transfer well to other concept-skill compositions. This approach ensures the diversity of these compositions, which is vital for LVLM generalization. Extensive experiments demonstrate that COINCIDE achieves superior performance and data selection efficiency against 8 strong baselines on two distinct datasets: LLaVA-1.5 and Vision-Flan. Using only 20{\\%} of the LLaVA-1.5 dataset, COINCIDE achieves performance comparable to the LVLM finetuned on the whole dataset, with 70{\\%} reduction of the wall-clock running time. On the Vision-Flan dataset, our method achieves superior results with only 16.7{\\%} of the training data."}
{"Title": "LLMs Assist NLP Researchers: Critique Paper (Meta-)Reviewing", "Abstract": "Claim: This work is not advocating the use of LLMs for paper (meta-)reviewing. Instead, wepresent a comparative analysis to identify and distinguish LLM activities from human activities. Two research goals: i) Enable better recognition of instances when someone implicitly uses LLMs for reviewing activities; ii) Increase community awareness that LLMs, and AI in general, are currently inadequate for performing tasks that require a high level of expertise and nuanced judgment.This work is motivated by two key trends. On one hand, large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable versatility in various generative tasks such as writing, drawing, and question answering, significantly reducing the time required for many routine tasks. On the other hand, researchers, whose work is not only time-consuming but also highly expertise-demanding, face increasing challenges as they have to spend more time reading, writing, and reviewing papers. This raises the question: how can LLMs potentially assist researchers in alleviating their heavy workload?This study focuses on the topic of LLMs as NLP Researchers, particularly examining the effectiveness of LLMs in assisting paper (meta-)reviewing and its recognizability. To address this, we constructed the ReviewCritique dataset, which includes two types of information: (i) NLP papers (initial submissions rather than camera-ready) with both human-written and LLM-generated reviews, and (ii) each review comes with {``}deficiency{''} labels and corresponding explanations for individual segments, annotated by experts. Using ReviewCritique, this study explores two threads of research questions: (i) {``}LLMs as Reviewers{''}, how do reviews generated by LLMs compare with those written by humans in terms of quality and distinguishability? (ii) {``}LLMs as Metareviewers{''}, how effectively can LLMs identify potential issues, such as Deficient or unprofessional review segments, within individual paper reviews? To our knowledge, this is the first work to provide such a comprehensive analysis."}
{"Title": "Academics Can Contribute to Domain-Specialized Language Models", "Abstract": "Commercially available models dominate academic leaderboards. While impressive, this has concentrated research on creating and adapting general-purpose models to improve NLP leaderboard standings for large language models. However, leaderboards collect many individual tasks and general-purpose models often underperform in specialized domains; domain-specific or adapted models yield superior results. This focus on large general-purpose models excludes many academics and draws attention away from areas where they can make important contributions. We advocate for a renewed focus on developing and evaluating domain- and task-specific models, and highlight the unique role of academics in this endeavor."}
{"Title": "Beyond Reference: Evaluating High Quality Translations Better than Human References", "Abstract": "In Machine Translation (MT) evaluations, the conventional approach is to compare a translated sentence against its human-created reference sentence. MT metrics provide an absolute score (e.g., from 0 to 1) to a candidate sentence based on the similarity with the reference sentence. Thus, existing MT metrics give the maximum score to the reference sentence. However, this approach overlooks the potential for a candidate sentence to exceed the reference sentence in terms of quality. In particular, recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have highlighted this issue, as LLM-generated sentences often exceed the quality of human-written sentences. To address the problem, we introduce the Residual score Metric (ResuMe), which evaluates the relative quality between reference and candidate sentences. ResuMe assigns a positive score to candidate sentences that outperform their reference sentences, and a negative score when they fall short. By adding the residual scores from ResuMe to the absolute scores from MT metrics, it can be possible to allocate higher scores to candidate sentences than what reference sentences are received from MT metrics. Experimental results demonstrate that ResuMe enhances the alignments between MT metrics and human judgments both at the segment-level and the system-level."}
{"Title": "Unveiling the Lexical Sensitivity of LLMs: Combinatorial Optimization for Prompt Enhancement", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) demonstrate exceptional instruct-following ability to complete various downstream tasks. Although this impressive ability makes LLMs flexible task solvers, their performance in solving tasks also heavily relies on instructions. In this paper, we reveal that LLMs are over-sensitive to lexical variations in task instructions, even when the variations are imperceptible to humans. By providing models with neighborhood instructions, which are closely situated in the latent representation space and differ by only one semantically similar word, the performance on downstream tasks can be vastly different. Following this property, we propose a black-box Combinatorial Optimization framework for Prompt Lexical Enhancement (COPLE). COPLE performs iterative lexical optimization according to the feedback from a batch of proxy tasks, using a search strategy related to word influence. Experiments show that even widely-used human-crafted prompts for current benchmarks suffer from the lexical sensitivity of models, and COPLE recovers the declined model ability in both instruct-following and solving downstream tasks."}
{"Title": "SEACrowd: A Multilingual Multimodal Data Hub and Benchmark Suite for Southeast Asian Languages", "Abstract": "Southeast Asia (SEA) is a region rich in linguistic diversity and cultural variety, with over 1,300 indigenous languages and a population of 671 million people. However, prevailing AI models suffer from a significant lack of representation of texts, images, and audio datasets from SEA, compromising the quality of AI models for SEA languages. Evaluating models for SEA languages is challenging due to the scarcity of high-quality datasets, compounded by the dominance of English training data, raising concerns about potential cultural misrepresentation. To address these challenges, through a collaborative movement, we introduce SEACrowd, a comprehensive resource center that fills the resource gap by providing standardized corpora in nearly 1,000 SEA languages across three modalities. Through our SEACrowd benchmarks, we assess the quality of AI models on 36 indigenous languages across 13 tasks, offering valuable insights into the current AI landscape in SEA. Furthermore, we propose strategies to facilitate greater AI advancements, maximizing potential utility and resource equity for the future of AI in Southeast Asia."}
{"Title": "Induct-Learn: Short Phrase Prompting with Instruction Induction", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated capability in {``}instruction induction,{''} generating instructions from demonstrations (input-output pairs). However, existing methods often rely on large datasets or numerous examples, which is impractical and costly in real-world scenarios. In this work, we propose a low-cost, task-level framework called Induct-Learn. It induces pseudo instructions from a few demonstrations and a short phrase, adding a CoT process into existing demonstrations. When encountering new problems, the learned pseudo instructions and demonstrations with the pseudo CoT process can be combined into a prompt to guide the LLM{'}s problem-solving process. We validate our approach on the BBH-Induct and Evals-Induct datasets, and the results show that the Induct-Learn framework outperforms state-of-the-art methods. We also exhibit cross-model adaptability and achieve superior performance at a lower cost compared to existing methods."}
{"Title": "Multi-Granularity History and Entity Similarity Learning for Temporal Knowledge Graph Reasoning", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "LUQ: Long-text Uncertainty Quantification for LLMs", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capability in a variety of NLP tasks. However, LLMs are also prone to generate nonfactual content. Uncertainty Quantification (UQ) is pivotal in enhancing our understanding of a model{'}s confidence on its generation, thereby aiding in the mitigation of nonfactual outputs. Existing research on UQ predominantly targets short text generation, typically yielding brief, word-limited responses. However, real-world applications frequently necessitate much longer responses. Our study first highlights the limitations of current UQ methods in handling long text generation. We then introduce Luq and its two variations, a series of novel sampling-based UQ approaches specifically designed for long text. Our findings reveal that Luq outperforms existing baseline methods in correlating with the model{'}s factuality scores (negative coefficient of -0.85 observed for Gemini Pro). To further improve the factuality of LLM responses, we propose Luq-Ensemble, a method that ensembles responses from multiple models and selects the response with the lowest uncertainty. The ensembling method greatly improves the response factuality upon the best standalone LLM."}
{"Title": "Pretraining Data Detection for Large Language Models: A Divergence-based Calibration Method", "Abstract": "As the scale of training corpora for large language models (LLMs) grows, model developers become increasingly reluctant to disclose details on their data. This lack of transparency poses challenges to scientific evaluation and ethical deployment. Recently, pretraining data detection approaches, which infer whether a given text was part of an LLM{'}s training data through black-box access, have been explored. The Min-K{\\%} Prob method, which has achieved state-of-the-art results, assumes that a non-training example tends to contain a few outlier words with low token probabilities. However, the effectiveness may be limited as it tends to misclassify non-training texts that contain many common words with high probabilities predicted by LLMs. To address this issue, we introduce a divergence-based calibration method, inspired by the divergence-from-randomness concept, to calibrate token probabilities for pretraining data detection. We compute the cross-entropy (i.e., the divergence) between the token probability distribution and the token frequency distribution to derive a detection score.We have developed a Chinese-language benchmark, PatentMIA, to assess the performance of detection approaches for LLMs on Chinese text. Experimental results on English-language benchmarks and PatentMIA demonstrate that our proposed method significantly outperforms existing methods. Our code and PatentMIA benchmark are available at \\url{https://github.com/zhang-wei-chao/DC-PDD}."}
{"Title": "Scaling Synthetic Logical Reasoning Datasets with Context-Sensitive Declarative Grammars", "Abstract": "Logical reasoning remains a challenge for natural language processing, but it can be improved by training language models to mimic theorem provers on procedurally generated problems. Previous work used domain-specific proof generation algorithms, which biases reasoning toward specific proof traces and limits auditability and extensibility. We present a simpler and more general declarative framework with flexible context-sensitive rules binding multiple languages (specifically, simplified English and the TPTP theorem-proving language). We construct first-order logic problems by selecting up to 32 premises and one hypothesis. We demonstrate that using semantic constraints during generation and careful English verbalization of predicates enhances logical reasoning without hurting natural English tasks. Using relatively small DeBERTa-v3 models, we achieve state-of-the-art accuracy on the FOLIO human-authored logic dataset, surpassing GPT-4 in accuracy with or without an external solver by 12{\\%}."}
{"Title": "Improving Spoken Language Modeling with Phoneme Classification: A Simple Fine-tuning Approach", "Abstract": "Recent progress in Spoken Language Modeling has shown that learning language directly from speech is feasible. Generating speech through a pipeline that operates at the text level typically loses nuances, intonations, and non-verbal vocalizations. Modeling directly from speech opens up the path to more natural and expressive systems. On the other hand, speech-only systems require up to three orders of magnitude more data to catch up to their text-based counterparts in terms of their semantic abilities. We show that fine-tuning speech representation models on phoneme classification leads to more context-invariant representations, and language models trained on these units achieve comparable lexical comprehension to ones trained on hundred times more data."}
{"Title": "Safely Learning with Private Data: A Federated Learning Framework for Large Language Model", "Abstract": "Private data, being larger and quality-higher than public data, can greatly improve large language models (LLM). However, due to privacy concerns, this data is often dispersed in multiple silos, making its secure utilization for LLM training a challenge. Federated learning (FL) is an ideal solution for training models with distributed private data, but traditional frameworks like FedAvg are unsuitable for LLM due to their high computational demands on clients. An alternative, split learning, offloads most training parameters to the server while training embedding and output layers locally, making it more suitable for LLM. Nonetheless, it faces significant challenges in security and efficiency. Firstly, the gradients of embeddings are prone to attacks, leading to potential reverse engineering of private data. Furthermore, the server{'}s limitation of handling only one client{'}s training request at a time hinders parallel training, severely impacting training efficiency. In this paper, we propose a Federated Learning framework for LLM, named FL-GLM, which prevents data leakage caused by both server-side and peer-client attacks while improving training efficiency. Specifically, we first place the input block and output block on local client to prevent embedding gradient attacks from server. Secondly, we employ key-encryption during client-server communication to prevent reverse engineering attacks from peer-clients. Lastly, we employ optimization methods like client-batching or server-hierarchical, adopting different acceleration methods based on the actual computational capabilities of the server. Experimental results on NLU and generation tasks demonstrate that FL-GLM achieves comparable metrics to centralized chatGLM model, validating the effectiveness of our federated learning framework."}
{"Title": "Formality is Favored: Unraveling the Learning Preferences of Large Language Models on Data with Conflicting Knowledge", "Abstract": "Having been trained on massive pretraining data, large language models have shown excellent performance on many knowledge-intensive tasks. However, pretraining data tends to contain misleading and even conflicting information, and it is intriguing to understand how LLMs handle these noisy data during training. In this study, we systematically analyze LLMs{'} learning preferences for data with conflicting knowledge. We find that pretrained LLMs establish learning preferences similar to humans, i.e., preferences towards formal texts and texts with fewer spelling errors, resulting in faster learning and more favorable treatment of knowledge in data with such features when facing conflicts. This finding is generalizable across models and languages and is more evident in larger models. An in-depth analysis reveals that LLMs tend to trust data with features that signify consistency with the majority of data, and it is possible to instill new preferences and erase old ones by manipulating the degree of consistency with the majority data."}
{"Title": "How Does the Textual Information Affect the Retrieval of Multimodal In-Context Learning?", "Abstract": "The increase in parameter size of multimodal large language models (MLLMs) introduces significant capabilities, particularly multimodal in-context learning, where MLLMs enhance task performance without updating pre-trained parameters. However, this effectiveness hinges on the appropriate selection of in-context examples, a process currently biased towards visual data, overlooking textual information. More importantly, the area of supervised retrievers for retrieval of multimodal in-context learning, crucial for optimal in-context example selection, continues to be investigated. Our study provides an in-depth evaluation of the impact of textual information on the unsupervised selection of in-context examples in multimodal contexts, uncovering a notable sensitivity of retriever performance to the employed modalities. Based on the above finding, we introduce a novel supervised MLLM prompt retriever MSIER that leverages a trained retriever based on MLLM{'}s confidence to select examples, which enhances multimodal in-context learning efficiency. This approach is validated through extensive testing across three different tasks, demonstrating the method{'}s effectiveness. Additionally, we investigate the influence of modalities on our supervised retrieval method{'}s training and explore the transferability of the supervised prompt retriever. This exploration paves the way for future advancements, highlighting the potential for refined in-context learning in MLLMs through the strategic use of multimodal data. The public code is available at https://github.com/NUS-HPC-AI-Lab/Multimodal-ICL-Retriever."}
{"Title": "How Far Can We Extract Diverse Perspectives from Large Language Models?", "Abstract": "Collecting diverse human opinions is costly and challenging. This leads to a recent trend in exploiting large language models (LLMs) for generating diverse data for potential scalable and efficient solutions. However, the extent to which LLMs can generate diverse perspectives on subjective topics is still unclear. In this study, we explore LLMs{'} capacity of generating diverse perspectives and rationales on subjective topics such as social norms and argumentative texts. We introduce the problem of extracting maximum diversity from LLMs. Motivated by how humans form opinions based on values, we propose a criteria-based prompting technique to ground diverse opinions. To see how far we can extract diverse perspectives from LLMs, or called diversity coverage, we employ a step-by-step recall prompting to generate more outputs from the model iteratively. Our methods, applied to various tasks, show that LLMs can indeed produce diverse opinions according to the degree of task subjectivity. We also find that LLMs performance of extracting maximum diversity is on par with human."}
{"Title": "EXPLORA: Efficient Exemplar Subset Selection for Complex Reasoning", "Abstract": "Answering reasoning-based complex questions over text and hybrid sources, including tables, is a challenging task. Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) have enabled in-context learning (ICL), allowing LLMs to acquire proficiency in a specific task using only a few demonstration samples (exemplars). A critical challenge in ICL is the selection of optimal exemplars, which can be either task-specific (static) or test-example-specific (dynamic). Static exemplars provide faster inference times and increased robustness across a distribution of test examples. In this paper, we propose an algorithm for static exemplar subset selection for complex reasoning tasks. We introduce EXPLORA, a novel exploration method designed to estimate the parameters of the scoring function, which evaluates exemplar subsets without incorporating confidence information. EXPLORA significantly reduces the number of LLM calls to {\\textasciitilde}11{\\%} of those required by state-of-the-art methods and achieves a substantial performance improvement of 12.24{\\%}. We open-source our code and data (https://github.com/kiranpurohit/EXPLORA)."}
{"Title": "An LLM Feature-based Framework for Dialogue Constructiveness Assessment", "Abstract": "Research on dialogue constructiveness assessment focuses on (i) analysing conversational factors that influence individuals to take specific actions, win debates, change their perspectives or broaden their open-mindedness and (ii) predicting constructiveness outcomes following dialogues for such use cases. These objectives can be achieved by training either interpretable feature-based models (which often involve costly human annotations) or neural models such as pre-trained language models (which have empirically shown higher task accuracy but lack interpretability). In this paper we propose an LLM feature-based framework for dialogue constructiveness assessment that combines the strengths of feature-based and neural approaches, while mitigating their downsides. The framework first defines a set of dataset-independent and interpretable linguistic features, which can be extracted by both prompting an LLM and simple heuristics. Such features are then used to train LLM feature-based models. We apply this framework to three datasets of dialogue constructiveness and find that our LLM feature-based models outperform or performs at least as well as standard feature-based models and neural models. We also find that the LLM feature-based model learns more robust prediction rules instead of relying on superficial shortcuts, which often trouble neural models."}
{"Title": "Relevance Is a Guiding Light: Relevance-aware Adaptive Learning for End-to-end Task-oriented Dialogue System", "Abstract": "Retrieving accurate domain knowledge and providing helpful information are crucial in developing an effective end-to-end task-oriented dialogue system (E2ETOD). The field has witnessed numerous methods following the retrieve-then-generate paradigm and training their systems on one specific domain. However, existing approaches still suffer from the Distractive Attributes Problem (DAP): struggling to deal with false but similar knowledge (hard negative entities), which is even more intractable when countless pieces of knowledge from different domains are blended in a real-world scenario. To alleviate DAP, we propose the Relevance-aware Adaptive Learning (ReAL) method, a two-stage training framework that eliminates hard negatives step-by-step and aligns retrieval with generation. In the first stage, we introduce a top-k adaptive contrastive loss and utilize the divergence-driven feedback from the frozen generator to pre-train the retriever. In the second stage, we propose using the metric score distribution as an anchor to align retrieval with generation. Thorough experiments on three benchmark datasets demonstrate ReAL{'}s superiority over existing methods, with extensive analysis validating its strong capabilities of overcoming in- and cross-domain distractions."}
{"Title": "Dialog2Flow: Pre-training Soft-Contrastive Action-Driven Sentence Embeddings for Automatic Dialog Flow Extraction", "Abstract": "Efficiently deriving structured workflows from unannotated dialogs remains an underexplored and formidable challenge in computational linguistics. Automating this process could significantly accelerate the manual design of workflows in new domains and enable the grounding of large language models in domain-specific flowcharts, enhancing transparency and controllability.In this paper, we introduce Dialog2Flow (D2F) embeddings, which differ from conventional sentence embeddings by mapping utterances to a latent space where they are grouped according to their communicative and informative functions (i.e., the actions they represent). D2F allows for modeling dialogs as continuous trajectories in a latent space with distinct action-related regions. By clustering D2F embeddings, the latent space is quantized, and dialogs can be converted into sequences of region/action IDs, facilitating the extraction of the underlying workflow.To pre-train D2F, we build a comprehensive dataset by unifying twenty task-oriented dialog datasets with normalized per-turn action annotations. We also introduce a novel soft contrastive loss that leverages the semantic information of these actions to guide the representation learning process, showing superior performance compared to standard supervised contrastive loss.Evaluation against various sentence embeddings, including dialog-specific ones, demonstrates that D2F yields superior qualitative and quantitative results across diverse domains."}
{"Title": "Words Worth a Thousand Pictures: Measuring and Understanding Perceptual Variability in Text-to-Image Generation", "Abstract": "Diffusion models are the state of the art in text-to-image generation, but their perceptual variability remains understudied. In this paper, we examine how prompts affect image variability in black-box diffusion-based models. We propose W1KP, a human-calibrated measure of variability in a set of images, bootstrapped from existing image-pair perceptual distances. Current datasets do not cover recent diffusion models, thus we curate three test sets for evaluation. Our best perceptual distance outperforms nine baselines by up to 18 points in accuracy, and our calibration matches graded human judgements 78{\\%} of the time. Using W1KP, we study prompt reusability and show that Imagen prompts can be reused for 10-50 random seeds before new images become too similar to already generated images, while Stable Diffusion XL and DALL-E 3 can be reused 50-200 times. Lastly, we analyze 56 linguistic features of real prompts, finding that the prompt{'}s length, CLIP embedding norm, concreteness, and word senses influence variability most. As far as we are aware, we are the first to analyze diffusion variability from a visuolinguistic perspective. Our project page is at http://w1kp.com."}
{"Title": "Investigating LLMs as Voting Assistants via Contextual Augmentation: A Case Study on the European Parliament Elections 2024", "Abstract": "In light of the recent 2024 European Parliament elections, we are investigating if LLMs can be used as Voting Advice Applications (VAAs). We audit MISTRAL and MIXTRAL models and evaluate their accuracy in predicting the stance of political parties based on the latest {``}EU and I{''} voting assistance questionnaire. Furthermore, we explore alternatives to improve models{'} performance by augmenting the input context via Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) relying on web search, and Self-Reflection using staged conversations that aim to re-collect relevant content from the model{'}s internal memory. We find that MIXTRAL is highly accurate with an 82{\\%} accuracy on average with a significant performance disparity across different political groups (50-95{\\%}). Augmenting the input context with expert-curated information can lead to a significant boost of approx. 9{\\%}, which remains an open challenge for automated RAG approaches, even considering curated content."}
{"Title": "Adaption-of-Thought: Learning Question Difficulty Improves Large Language Models for Reasoning", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have shown excellent capability for solving reasoning problems. Existing approaches do not differentiate the question difficulty when designing prompting methods for them. Clearly, a simple method cannot elicit sufficient knowledge from LLMs to answer a hard question. Meanwhile, a sophisticated one will force the LLM to generate redundant or even inaccurate intermediate steps toward a simple question. Consequently, the performance of existing methods fluctuates among various questions.In this work, we propose Adaption-of-Thought (AdoT), an adaptive method to improve LLMs for the reasoning problem, which first measures the question difficulty and then tailors demonstration set construction and difficulty-adapted retrieval strategies for the adaptive demonstration construction. Experimental results on three reasoning tasks prove the superiority of our proposed method, showing an absolute improvement of up to 5.5{\\%} on arithmetic reasoning, 7.4{\\%} on symbolic reasoning, and 2.3{\\%} on commonsense reasoning. Our codes and implementation details are available at: https://github.com/NLPGM/AdoT"}
{"Title": "LogicST: A Logical Self-Training Framework for Document-Level Relation Extraction with Incomplete Annotations", "Abstract": "Document-level relation extraction (DocRE) aims to identify relationships between entities within a document. Due to the vast number of entity pairs, fully annotating all fact triplets is challenging, resulting in datasets with numerous false negative samples. Recently, self-training-based methods have been introduced to address this issue. However, these methods are purely black-box and sub-symbolic, making them difficult to interpret and prone to overlooking symbolic interdependencies between relations.To remedy this deficiency, our insight is that symbolic knowledge, such as logical rules, can be used as diagnostic tools to identify conflicts between pseudo-labels. By resolving these conflicts through logical diagnoses, we can correct erroneous pseudo-labels, thus enhancing the training of neural models.To achieve this, we propose **LogicST**, a neural-logic self-training framework that iteratively resolves conflicts and constructs the minimal diagnostic set for updating models. Extensive experiments demonstrate that LogicST significantly improves performance and outperforms previous state-of-the-art methods. For instance, LogicST achieves an increase of **7.94{\\%}** in F1 score compared to CAST (Tan et al., 2023a) on the DocRED benchmark (Yao et al., 2019). Additionally, LogicST is more time-efficient than its self-training counterparts, requiring only **10{\\%}** of the training time of CAST."}
{"Title": "Concept Space Alignment in Multilingual LLMs", "Abstract": "Multilingual large language models (LLMs) seem to generalize somewhat across languages. We hypothesize this is a result of implicit vector space alignment. Evaluating such alignment, we see that larger models exhibit very high-quality linear alignments between corresponding concepts in different languages. Our experiments show that multilingual LLMs suffer from two familiar weaknesses: generalization works best for languages with similar typology, and for abstract concepts. For some models, e.g., the Llama-2 family of models, prompt-based embeddings align better than word embeddings, but the projections are less linear {--} an observation that holds across almost all model families, indicating that some of the implicitly learned alignments are broken somewhat by prompt-based methods."}
{"Title": "Predicting Rewards Alongside Tokens: Non-disruptive Parameter Insertion for Efficient Inference Intervention in Large Language Model", "Abstract": "Transformer-based large language models (LLMs) exhibit limitations such as generating unsafe responses, unreliable reasoning, etc. Existing inference intervention approaches attempt to mitigate these issues by finetuning additional models to produce calibration signals (such as rewards) that guide the LLM{'}s decoding process. However, this solution introduces substantial time and space overhead due to the separate models required. This work proposes Non-disruptive parameters insertion (Otter), inserting extra parameters into the transformer architecture to predict calibration signals along with the original LLM output. Otter offers state-of-the-art performance on multiple demanding tasks while saving up to 86.5{\\%} extra space and 98.5{\\%} extra time. Furthermore, Otter seamlessly integrates with existing inference engines, requiring only a one-line code change, and the original model response remains accessible after the parameter insertion."}
{"Title": "NLEBench+NorGLM: A Comprehensive Empirical Analysis and Benchmark Dataset for Generative Language Models in Norwegian", "Abstract": "Norwegian, spoken by only 5 million population, is under-representative within the most impressive breakthroughs in NLP tasks. To the best of our knowledge, there has not yet been a comprehensive evaluation of the existing language models (LMs) on Norwegian generation tasks during the article writing process. To fill this gap, we 1) compiled the existing Norwegian dataset and pre-trained 4 Norwegian Open Language Models varied from parameter scales and architectures, collectively called NorGLM; 2) introduced a comprehensive benchmark, NLEBench, for evaluating natural language generation capabilities in Norwegian, encompassing translation and human annotation. Based on the investigation, we find that: 1) the mainstream, English-dominated LM GPT-3.5 has limited capability in understanding the Norwegian context; 2) the increase in model parameter scales demonstrates limited impact on the performance of downstream tasks when the pre-training dataset is constrained in size; 3) smaller models also demonstrate the reasoning capability through Chain-of-Thought; 4) a multi-task dataset that includes synergy tasks can be used to verify the generalizability of LLMs on natural language understanding and, meanwhile, test the interconnectedness of these NLP tasks. We share our resources and code for reproducibility under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license."}
{"Title": "RSA-Control: A Pragmatics-Grounded Lightweight Controllable Text Generation Framework", "Abstract": "Despite significant advancements in natural language generation, controlling language models to produce texts with desired attributes remains a formidable challenge. In this work, we introduce RSA-Control, a training-free controllable text generation framework grounded in pragmatics. RSA-Control directs the generation process by recursively reasoning between imaginary speakers and listeners, enhancing the likelihood that target attributes are correctly interpreted by listeners amidst distractors. Additionally, we introduce a self-adjustable rationality parameter, which allows for automatic adjustment of control strength based on context. Our experiments, conducted with two task types and two types of language models, demonstrate that RSA-Control achieves strong attribute control while maintaining language fluency and content consistency. Our code is available at https://github.com/Ewanwong/RSA-Control."}
{"Title": "Scaling Laws Across Model Architectures: A Comparative Analysis of Dense and MoE Models in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The scaling of large language models (LLMs) is a critical research area for the efficiency and effectiveness of model training and deployment. Our work investigates the transferability and discrepancies of scaling laws between Dense Models and Mixture of Experts (MoE) models. Through a combination of theoretical analysis and extensive experiments, including consistent loss scaling, optimal batch size/learning rate scaling, and resource allocation strategies scaling, our findings reveal that the power-law scaling framework also applies to MoE Models, indicating that the fundamental principles governing the scaling behavior of these models are preserved, even though the architecture differs. Additionally, MoE Models demonstrate superior generalization, resulting in lower testing losses with the same training compute budget compared to Dense Models. These findings indicate the scaling consistency and transfer generalization capabilities of MoE Models, providing new insights for optimizing MoE Model training and deployment strategies."}
{"Title": "Synergizing In-context Learning with Hints for End-to-end Task-oriented Dialog Systems", "Abstract": "End-to-end Task-Oriented Dialog (TOD) systems typically require extensive training datasets to perform well. In contrast, large language model (LLM) based TOD systems can excel even with limited data due to their ability to learn tasks through in-context exemplars. However, these models lack alignment with the style of responses in training data and often generate comprehensive responses, making it difficult for users to grasp the information quickly. In response, we propose SyncTOD that synergizes LLMs with task-specific hints to improve alignment in low-data settings. SyncTOD employs small auxiliary models to provide hints and select exemplars for in-context prompts. With ChatGPT, SyncTOD achieves superior performance compared to LLM-based baselines and SoTA models in low-data settings, while retaining competitive performance in full-data settings."}
{"Title": "REAR: A Relevance-Aware Retrieval-Augmented Framework for Open-Domain Question Answering", "Abstract": "Considering the limited internal parametric knowledge, retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has been widely used to extend the knowledge scope of large language models (LLMs). Despite the extensive efforts on RAG research, in existing methods, LLMs cannot precisely assess the relevance of retrieved documents, thus likely leading to misleading or even incorrect utilization of external knowledge (i.e., retrieved documents). To address this issue, in this paper, we propose REAR, a RElevance-Aware Retrieval-augmented approach for open-domain question answering (QA). As the key motivation, we aim to enhance the self-awareness regarding the reliability of external knowledge for LLMs, so as to adaptively utilize external knowledge in RAG systems. Specially, we develop a novel architecture for LLM based RAG system, by incorporating a specially designed assessnent module that precisely assesses the relevance of retrieved documents. Furthermore, we propose an improved training method based on bi-granularity relevance fusion and noise-resistant training. By combining the improvements in both architecture and training, our proposed REAR can better utilize external knowledge by effectively perceiving the relevance of retrieved documents. Experiments on four open-domain QA tasks show that REAR significantly outperforms previous a number of competitive RAG approaches. Our codes can be accessed at https://github.com/RUCAIBox/REAR."}
{"Title": "Leave No Document Behind: Benchmarking Long-Context LLMs with Extended Multi-Doc QA", "Abstract": "Long-context modeling capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) have garnered widespread attention, leading to the emergence of LLMs with ultra-context windows. Meanwhile, benchmarks for evaluating long-context language models are gradually catching up. However, existing benchmarks employ irrelevant noise texts to artificially extend the length of test cases, diverging from the real-world scenarios of long-context applications. To bridge this gap, we propose a novel long-context benchmark, Loong, aligning with realistic scenarios through extended multi-document question answering (QA). Unlike typical document QA, in Loong{'}s test cases, each document is relevant to the final answer, ignoring any document will lead to the failure of the answer. Furthermore, Loong introduces four types of tasks with a range of context lengths: Spotlight Locating, Comparison, Clustering, and Chain of Reasoning, to facilitate a more realistic and comprehensive evaluation of long-context understanding. Extensive experiments indicate that existing long-context language models still exhibit considerable potential for enhancement. Retrieval augmented generation (RAG) achieves poor performance, demonstrating that Loong can reliably assess the model{'}s long-context modeling capabilities."}
{"Title": "On Mitigating Performance Disparities in Multilingual Speech Recognition", "Abstract": "How far have we come in mitigating performance disparities across genders in multilingual speech recognition? We compare the impact on gender disparity of different fine-tuning algorithms for automated speech recognition across model sizes, languages and gender. We look at both performance-focused and fairness-promoting algorithms. Across languages, we see slightly better performance for female speakers for larger models regardless of the fine-tuning algorithm. The best trade-off between performance and parity is found using adapter fusion. Fairness-promoting fine-tuning algorithms (Group-DRO and Spectral Decoupling) hurt performance compared to adapter fusion with only slightly better performance parity. LoRA increases disparities slightly. Fairness-mitigating fine-tuning techniques led to slightly higher variance in performance across languages, with the exception of adapter fusion."}
{"Title": "Thinking Outside of the Differential Privacy Box: A Case Study in Text Privatization with Language Model Prompting", "Abstract": "The field of privacy-preserving Natural Language Processing has risen in popularity, particularly at a time when concerns about privacy grow with the proliferation of large language models. One solution consistently appearing in recent literature has been the integration of Differential Privacy (DP) into NLP techniques. In this paper, we take these approaches into critical view, discussing the restrictions that DP integration imposes, as well as bring to light the challenges that such restrictions entail. To accomplish this, we focus on **DP-Prompt**, a recent method for text privatization leveraging language models to rewrite texts. In particular, we explore this rewriting task in multiple scenarios, both with DP and without DP. To drive the discussion on the merits of DP in NLP, we conduct empirical utility and privacy experiments. Our results demonstrate the need for more discussion on the usability of DP in NLP and its benefits over non-DP approaches."}
{"Title": "To Preserve or To Compress: An In-Depth Study of Connector Selection in Multimodal Large Language Models", "Abstract": "In recent years, multimodal large language models (MLLMs) have attracted widespread attention from both industry and academia. Based on the integration position, MLLMs can be categorized into external and internal fusion architectures, with the former being more predominant. However, there remains considerable debate on how to construct the optimal external fusion MLLM architecture, especially regarding the performance of different connectors on tasks with varying granularities. This paper systematically investigates the impact of connectors on MLLM performance. Specifically, we classify connectors into feature-preserving and feature-compressing types. Utilizing a unified classification standard, we categorize sub-tasks from three comprehensive benchmarks, MMBench, MME, and SEED-Bench, into three task types: coarse-grained perception, fine-grained perception, and reasoning, and evaluate the performance from this perspective. Our findings reveal significant performance differences between different types of connectors across various tasks, offering essential guidance for MLLM architecture design and advancing the understanding of MLLM architecture optimization."}
{"Title": "What is \u201dTypological Diversity\u201d in NLP?", "Abstract": "The NLP research community has devoted increased attention to languages beyond English, resulting in considerable improvements for multilingual NLP. However, these improvements only apply to a small subset of the world{'}s languages. An increasing number of papers aspires to enhance generalizable multilingual performance across languages. To this end, linguistic typology is commonly used to motivate language selection, on the basis that a broad typological sample ought to imply generalization across a broad range of languages. These selections are often described as being typologically diverse. In this meta-analysis, we systematically investigate NLP research that includes claims regarding typological diversity. We find there are no set definitions or criteria for such claims. We introduce metrics to approximate the diversity of resulting language samples along several axes and find that the results vary considerably across papers. Crucially, we show that skewed language selection can lead to overestimated multilingual performance. We recommend future work to include an operationalization of typological diversity that empirically justifies the diversity of language samples. To help facilitate this, we release the code for our diversity measures."}
{"Title": "The Computational Anatomy of Humility: Modeling Intellectual Humility in Online Public Discourse", "Abstract": "The ability for individuals to constructively engage with one another across lines of difference is a critical feature of a healthy pluralistic society. This is also true in online discussion spaces like social media platforms. To date, much social media research has focused on preventing ills{---}like political polarization and the spread of misinformation. While this is important, enhancing the quality of online public discourse requires not just reducing ills, but also, promoting foundational human virtues. In this study, we focus on one particular virtue: {``}intellectual humility{''} (IH), or acknowledging the potential limitations in one{'}s own beliefs. Specifically, we explore the development of computational methods for measuring IH at scale. We manually curate and validate an IH codebook on 350 posts about religion drawn from subreddits and use them to develop LLM-based models for automating this measurement. Our best model achieves a Macro-F1 score of 0.64 across labels (and 0.70 when predicting IH/IA/Neutral at the coarse level), higher than an expected naive baseline of 0.51 (0.32 for IH/IA/Neutral) but lower than a human annotator-informed upper bound of 0.85 (0.83 for IH/IA/Neutral). Our results both highlight the challenging nature of detecting IH online{---}opening the door to new directions in NLP research{---}and also lay a foundation for computational social science researchers interested in analyzing and fostering more IH in online public discourse."}
{"Title": "Consistent Bidirectional Language Modelling: Expressive Power and Representational Conciseness", "Abstract": "The inability to utilise future contexts and the pre-determined left-to-right generation order are major limitations of unidirectional language models. Bidirectionality has been introduced to address those deficiencies. However, a crucial shortcoming of bidirectional language models is the potential inconsistency of their conditional distributions. This fundamental flaw greatly diminishes their applicability and hinders their capability of tractable sampling and likelihood computation. In this work, we introduce a class of bidirectional language models, called latent language models, that are consistent by definition and can be efficiently used both for generation and scoring of sequences. We define latent language models based on the well-understood formalism of bisequential decompositions from automata theory. This formal correspondence allows us to precisely charaterise the abilities and limitations of a subclass of latent language models, called rational language models. As a result, we obtain that latent language models are exponentially more concise and significantly more expressive than unidirectional language models."}
{"Title": "Benchmarking Vision Language Models for Cultural Understanding", "Abstract": "Foundation models and vision-language pre-training have notably advanced Vision Language Models (VLMs), enabling multimodal processing of visual and linguistic data. However, their performance has been typically assessed on general scene understanding - recognizing objects, attributes, and actions - rather than cultural comprehension. This study introduces CulturalVQA, a visual question-answering benchmark aimed at assessing VLM{'}s geo-diverse cultural understanding. We curate a diverse collection of 2,378 image-question pairs with 1-5 answers per question representing cultures from 11 countries across 5 continents. The questions probe understanding of various facets of culture such as clothing, food, drinks, rituals, and traditions. Benchmarking VLMs on CulturalVQA, including GPT-4V and Gemini, reveals disparity in their level of cultural understanding across regions, with strong cultural understanding capabilities for North America while significantly weaker capabilities for Africa. We observe disparity in their performance across cultural facets too, with clothing, rituals, and traditions seeing higher performances than food and drink. These disparities help us identify areas where VLMs lack cultural understanding and demonstrate the potential of CulturalVQA as a comprehensive evaluation set for gauging VLM progress in understanding diverse cultures."}
{"Title": "Methods of Automatic Matrix Language Determination for Code-Switched Speech", "Abstract": "Code-switching (CS) is the process of speakers interchanging between two or more languages which in the modern world becomes increasingly common. In order to better describe CS speech the Matrix Language Frame (MLF) theory introduces the concept of a Matrix Language, which is the language that provides the grammatical structure for a CS utterance. In this work the MLF theory was used to develop systems for Matrix Language Identity (MLID) determination. The MLID of English/Mandarin and English/Spanish CS text and speech was compared to acoustic language identity (LID), which is a typical way to identify a language in monolingual utterances. MLID predictors from audio show higher correlation with the textual principles than LID in all cases while also outperforming LID in an MLID recognition task based on F1 macro (60{\\%}) and correlation score (0.38). This novel approach has identified that non-English languages (Mandarin and Spanish) are preferred over the English language as the ML contrary to the monolingual choice of LID."}
{"Title": "Analyzing Key Factors Influencing Emotion Prediction Performance of VLLMs in Conversational Contexts", "Abstract": "Emotional intelligence (EI) in artificial intelligence (AI), which refers to the ability of an AI to understand and respond appropriately to human emotions, has emerged as a crucial research topic. Recent studies have shown that large language models (LLMs) and vision large language models (VLLMs) possess EI and the ability to understand emotional stimuli in the form of text and images, respectively. However, factors influencing the emotion prediction performance of VLLMs in real-world conversational contexts have not been sufficiently explored. This study aims to analyze the key elements affecting the emotion prediction performance of VLLMs in conversational contexts systematically. To achieve this, we reconstructed the MELD dataset, which is based on the popular TV series Friends, and conducted experiments through three sub-tasks: overall emotion tone prediction, character emotion prediction, and contextually appropriate emotion expression selection. We evaluated the performance differences based on various model architectures (e.g., image encoders, modality alignment, and LLMs) and image scopes (e.g., entire scene, person, and facial expression). In addition, we investigated the impact of providing persona information on the emotion prediction performance of the models and analyzed how personality traits and speaking styles influenced the emotion prediction process. We conducted an in-depth analysis of the impact of various other factors, such as gender and regional biases, on the emotion prediction performance of VLLMs. The results revealed that these factors significantly influenced the model performance."}
{"Title": "Context-Aware Assistant Selection for Improved Inference Acceleration with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Despite their widespread adoption, large language models (LLMs) remain prohibitive to use under resource constraints, with their ever growing sizes only increasing the barrier for use. One particular issue stems from the high latency associated with auto-regressive generation in LLMs, rendering the largest LLMs difficult to use without advanced computing infrastructure. Assisted decoding, where a smaller draft model guides a larger expert model{'}s generation, has helped alleviate this concern, but remains dependent on alignment between the two models. Thus if the draft model is insufficiently capable on some domain of interest relative to the target model, performance can degrade. Alternatively, one can leverage multiple draft models to better cover the expertise of the target, but when multiple black-box draft models are available, selecting an assistant without details about its construction can be difficult. To better understand this decision making problem, we observe it as a contextual bandit, where a policy must choose a draft model based on a context. We show that even without prior knowledge of the draft models, creating an offline dataset from only outputs of independent draft/target models and training a policy over the alignment of these outputs can accelerate performance on multiple domains as long as an individual draft model is effective. We observe these results hold on various settings with multiple assisted decoding candidates, highlighting its flexibility and the advantageous role that such decision making can play."}
{"Title": "Teaching Small Language Models Reasoning through Counterfactual Distillation", "Abstract": "With the rise of large language models (LLMs), many studies are interested in transferring the reasoning capabilities of LLMs to small language models (SLMs). Previous distillation methods usually utilize the capabilities of LLMs to generate chain-of-thought (CoT) samples and teach SLMs via fine-tuning. However, such a standard distillation approach performs poorly when applied to out-of-distribution (OOD) examples, and the diversity of the generated CoT samples is insufficient. In this work, we propose a novel counterfactual distillation framework. Firstly, we leverage LLMs to automatically generate high-quality counterfactual data. Given an input text example, our method generates a counterfactual example that is very similar to the original input, but its task label has been changed to the desired one. Then, we utilize multi-view CoT to enhance the diversity of reasoning samples. Experiments on four NLP benchmarks show that our approach enhances the reasoning capabilities of SLMs and is more robust to OOD data. We also conduct extensive ablations and sample studies to understand the reasoning capabilities of SLMs."}
{"Title": "Pretraining Language Models Using Translationese", "Abstract": "In this paper, we explore the utility of Translationese as synthetic data created using machine translation for pre-training language models (LMs) for low-resource languages (LRLs). Our simple methodology consists of translating large amounts of web-crawled monolingual documents (clean) into the LRLs, followed by filtering the translated documents using tiny LMs trained on small but clean LRL data. Taking the case of Indian languages, we pre-train LMs from scratch with 28M and 85M parameters, and then fine-tune them for 5 downstream natural language understanding (NLU) and 4 generative (NLG) tasks. We observe that pre-training on filtered synthetic data leads to relative performance drops of only 0.87{\\%} for NLU and 2.35{\\%} for NLG, compared to pre-training on clean data, and this gap further diminishes upon the inclusion of a small amount of clean data. We also study the impact of synthetic data filtering and the choice of source language for synthetic data generation. Furthermore, evaluating continually pre-trained larger models like Gemma-2B and Llama-3-8B in few-shot settings, we observe that using synthetic data is competitive with using clean data. Our findings suggest that synthetic data shows promise for bridging the pre-training gap between English and LRLs."}
{"Title": "Quantifying the Gaps Between Translation and Native Perception in Training for Multimodal, Multilingual Retrieval", "Abstract": "There is a scarcity of multilingual vision-language models that properly account for the perceptual differences that are reflected in image captions across languages and cultures. In this work, through a multimodal, multilingual retrieval case study, we quantify the existing lack of model flexibility. We empirically show performance gaps between training on captions that come from native German perception and captions that have been either machine-translated or human-translated from English into German. To address these gaps, we further propose and evaluate caption augmentation strategies. While we achieve mean recall improvements (+1.3), gaps still remain, indicating an open area of future work for the community."}
{"Title": "MTA4DPR: Multi-Teaching-Assistants Based Iterative Knowledge Distillation for Dense Passage Retrieval", "Abstract": "Although Dense Passage Retrieval (DPR) models have achieved significantly enhanced performance, their widespread application is still hindered by the demanding inference efficiency and high deployment costs. Knowledge distillation is an efficient method to compress models, which transfers knowledge from strong teacher models to weak student models. Previous studies have proved the effectiveness of knowledge distillation in DPR. However, there often remains a significant performance gap between the teacher and the distilled student. To narrow this performance gap, we propose MTA4DPR, a Multi-Teaching-Assistants based iterative knowledge distillation method for Dense Passage Retrieval, which transfers knowledge from the teacher to the student with the help of multiple assistants in an iterative manner; with each iteration, the student learns from more performant assistants and more difficult data. The experimental results show that our 66M student model achieves the state-of-the-art performance among models with same parameters on multiple datasets, and is very competitive when compared with larger, even LLM-based, DPR models."}
{"Title": "Fine-Grained Detection of Solidarity for Women and Migrants in 155 Years of German Parliamentary Debates", "Abstract": "Solidarity is a crucial concept to understand social relations in societies. In this study, we investigate the frequency of (anti-)solidarity towards women and migrants in German parliamentary debates between 1867 and 2022. Using 2,864 manually annotated text snippets, we evaluate large language models (LLMs) like Llama 3, GPT-3.5, and GPT-4. We find that GPT-4 outperforms other models, approaching human annotation accuracy. Using GPT-4, we automatically annotate 18,300 further instances and find that solidarity with migrants outweighs anti-solidarity but that frequencies and solidarity types shift over time. Most importantly, group-based notions of (anti-)solidarity fade in favor of compassionate solidarity, focusing on the vulnerability of migrant groups, and exchange-based anti-solidarity, focusing on the lack of (economic) contribution. This study highlights the interplay of historical events, socio-economic needs, and political ideologies in shaping migration discourse and social cohesion."}
{"Title": "CItruS: Chunked Instruction-aware State Eviction for Long Sequence Modeling", "Abstract": "Long sequence modeling has gained broad interest as large language models (LLMs) continue to advance. Recent research has identified that a large portion of hidden states within the key-value caches of Transformer models can be discarded (also termed evicted) withoutaffecting the perplexity performance in generating long sequences. However, we show that these methods, despite preserving perplexity performance, often drop information that is important for solving downstream tasks, a problem which we call information neglect. To address this issue, we introduce Chunked Instruction-aware State Eviction (CItruS), a novel modeling technique that integrates the attention preferences useful for a downstream task into the eviction process of hidden states. In addition, we design a method for chunked sequence processing to further improve efficiency. Our training-free method exhibits superior performance on long sequence comprehension and retrieval tasks over several strong baselines under the same memory budget, while preserving language modeling perplexity. The code and data have been released at https://github.com/ybai-nlp/CItruS."}
{"Title": "Story Embeddings \u2014 Narrative-Focused Representations of Fictional Stories", "Abstract": "We present a novel approach to modeling fictional narratives. The proposed model creates embeddings that represent a story such that similar narratives, that is, reformulations of the same story, will result in similar embeddings. We showcase the prowess of our narrative-focused embeddings on various datasets, exhibiting state-of-the-art performance on multiple retrieval tasks. The embeddings also show promising results on a narrative understanding task. Additionally, we perform an annotation-based evaluation to validate that our introduced computational notion of narrative similarity aligns with human perception. The approach can help to explore vast datasets of stories, with potential applications in recommender systems and in the computational analysis of literature."}
{"Title": "C-LLM: Learn to Check Chinese Spelling Errors Character by Character", "Abstract": "Chinese Spell Checking (CSC) aims to detect and correct spelling errors in sentences. Despite Large Language Models (LLMs) exhibit robust capabilities and are widely applied in various tasks, their performance on CSC is often unsatisfactory. We find that LLMs fail to meet the Chinese character-level constraints of the CSC task, namely equal length and phonetic similarity, leading to a performance bottleneck. Further analysis reveals that this issue stems from the granularity of tokenization, as current mixed character-word tokenization struggles to satisfy these character-level constraints. To address this issue, we propose C-LLM, a Large Language Model-based Chinese Spell Checking method that learns to check errors Character by Character. Character-level tokenization enables the model to learn character-level alignment, effectively mitigating issues related to character-level constraints. Furthermore, CSC is simplified to replication-dominated and substitution-supplemented tasks. Experiments on two CSC benchmarks demonstrate that C-LLM achieves a 2.1{\\%} enhancement in general scenarios and a significant 12{\\%} improvement in vertical domain scenarios compared to existing methods, establishing state-of-the-art performance."}
{"Title": "PSC: Extending Context Window of Large Language Models via Phase Shift Calibration", "Abstract": "Rotary Position Embedding (RoPE) is an efficient position encoding approach and is widely utilized in numerous large language models (LLMs). Recently, a lot of methods have been put forward to further expand the context window based on RoPE. The core concept of those methods is to predefine or search for a set of factors to rescale the base frequencies of RoPE. Nevertheless, it is quite a challenge for existing methods to predefine an optimal factor due to the exponential search space. In view of this, we introduce PSC (Phase Shift Calibration), a small module for calibrating the frequencies predefined by existing methods. With the employment of PSC, we demonstrate that many existing methods can be further enhanced, like PI, YaRN, and LongRoPE. We conducted extensive experiments across multiple models and tasks. The results demonstrate that (1) when PSC is enabled, the comparative reductions in perplexity increase as the context window size is varied from 16k, to 32k, and up to 64k. (2) Our approach is broadly applicable and exhibits robustness across a variety of models and tasks."}
{"Title": "Video-LLaVA: Learning United Visual Representation by Alignment Before Projection", "Abstract": "Large Vision-Language Model (LVLM) has enhanced the performance of various downstream tasks in visual-language understanding. Most existing approaches encode images and videos into separate feature spaces, which are then fed as inputs to large language models. However, due to the lack of unified tokenization for images and videos, namely misalignment before projection, it becomes challenging for a Large Language Model (LLM) to learn multi-modal interactions from several poor projection layers.In this work, we unify visual representation into the language feature space to advance the foundational LLM towards a unified LVLM. As a result, we establish a simple but robust LVLM baseline, Video-LLaVA, which learns from a mixed dataset of images and videos, mutually enhancing each other.As a result, Video-LLaVA outperforms Video-ChatGPT by 5.8{\\%}, 9.9{\\%}, 18.6{\\%}, and 10.1{\\%} on MSRVTT, MSVD, TGIF, and ActivityNet, respectively. Additionally, our Video-LLaVA also achieves superior performances on a broad range of 9 image benchmarks.Notably, extensive experiments demonstrate that Video-LLaVA mutually benefits images and videos within a unified visual representation, outperforming models designed specifically for images or videos. We aim for this work to provide modest insights into the multi-modal inputs for the LLM."}
{"Title": "SaySelf: Teaching LLMs to Express Confidence with Self-Reflective Rationales", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) often generate inaccurate or fabricated information and generally fail to indicate their confidence, which limits their broader applications. Previous work has elicited confidence from LLMs by direct or self-consistency prompting, or constructing specific datasets for supervised finetuning. The prompting-based approaches have inferior performance, and the training-based approaches are limited to binary or inaccurate group-level confidence estimates. In this work, we present SaySelf, a novel training framework that teaches LLMs to express more fine-grained confidence estimates. In addition, beyond the confidence scores, SaySelf initiates the process of directing LLMs to produce self-reflective rationales that clearly identify gaps in their parametric knowledge and explain their uncertainty. This is achieved by using an LLM to automatically summarize the uncertainties in specific knowledge via natural language. The summarization is based on the analysis of the inconsistency in multiple sampled reasoning chains, and the resulting data is utilized for supervised fine-tuning. Moreover, we utilize reinforcement learning with a meticulously crafted reward function to calibrate the confidence estimates, motivating LLMs to deliver accurate, high-confidence predictions and to penalize overconfidence in erroneous outputs. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of SaySelf in reducing the confidence calibration error and maintaining the task performance. The generated self-reflective rationales are also reasonable and can further contribute to the calibration. The code is made public at https://github.com/xu1868/SaySelf."}
{"Title": "Mitigating Frequency Bias and Anisotropy in Language Model Pre-Training with Syntactic Smoothing", "Abstract": "Language models strongly rely on frequency information because they maximize the likelihood of tokens during pre-training. As a consequence, language models tend to not generalize well to tokens that are seldom seen during training. Moreover, maximum likelihood training has been discovered to give rise to anisotropy: representations of tokens in a model tend to cluster tightly in a high-dimensional cone, rather than spreading out over their representational capacity.Our work introduces a method for quantifying the frequency bias of a language model by assessing sentence-level perplexity with respect to token-level frequency. We then present a method for reducing the frequency bias of a language model by inducing a syntactic prior over token representations during pre-training. Our Syntactic Smoothing method adjusts the maximum likelihood objective function to distribute the learning signal to syntactically similar tokens. This approach results in better performance on infrequent English tokens and a decrease in anisotropy. We empirically show that the degree of anisotropy in a model correlates with its frequency bias."}
{"Title": "ToxiCloakCN: Evaluating Robustness of Offensive Language Detection in Chinese with Cloaking Perturbations", "Abstract": "Detecting hate speech and offensive language is essential for maintaining a safe and respectful digital environment. This study examines the limitations of state-of-the-art large language models (LLMs) in identifying offensive content within systematically perturbed data, with a focus on Chinese, a language particularly susceptible to such perturbations. We introduce ToxiCloakCN, an enhanced dataset derived from ToxiCN, augmented with homophonic substitutions and emoji transformations, to test the robustness of LLMs against these cloaking perturbations. Our findings reveal that existing models significantly underperform in detecting offensive content when these perturbations are applied. We provide an in-depth analysis of how different types of offensive content are affected by these perturbations and explore the alignment between human and model explanations of offensiveness. Our work highlights the urgent need for more advanced techniques in offensive language detection to combat the evolving tactics used to evade detection mechanisms."}
{"Title": "Boosting Scientific Concepts Understanding: Can Analogy from Teacher Models Empower Student Models?", "Abstract": "Analogical reasoning plays a critical role in human cognition, enabling us to understand new concepts by associating them with familiar ones. Previous research in the AI community has mainly focused on identifying and generating analogies and then examining their quality under human evaluation, which overlooks the practical application of these analogies in real-world settings. Inspired by the human education process, in this paper, we propose to investigate how analogies created by teacher language models (LMs) can assist student LMs in understanding scientific concepts, thereby aligning more closely with practical scenarios. Our results suggest that free-form analogies can indeed aid LMs in understanding concepts. Additionally, analogies generated by student LMs can improve their own performance on scientific question answering, demonstrating their capability to use analogies for self-learning new knowledge. Resources are available athttps://github.com/siyuyuan/SCUA."}
{"Title": "Model Internals-based Answer Attribution for Trustworthy Retrieval-Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Ensuring the verifiability of model answers is a fundamental challenge for retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) in the question answering (QA) domain. Recently, self-citation prompting was proposed to make large language models (LLMs) generate citations to supporting documents along with their answers. However, self-citing LLMs often struggle to match the required format, refer to non-existent sources, and fail to faithfully reflect LLMs{'} context usage throughout the generation. In this work, we present MIRAGE {--} Model Internals-based RAG Explanations {--} a plug-and-play approach using model internals for faithful answer attribution in RAG applications. MIRAGE detects context-sensitive answer tokens and pairs them with retrieved documents contributing to their prediction via saliency methods. We evaluate our proposed approach on a multilingual extractive QA dataset, finding high agreement with human answer attribution. On open-ended QA, MIRAGE achieves citation quality and efficiency comparable to self-citation while also allowing for a finer-grained control of attribution parameters. Our qualitative evaluation highlights the faithfulness of MIRAGE{'}s attributions and underscores the promising application of model internals for RAG answer attribution. Code and data released at https://github.com/Betswish/MIRAGE."}
{"Title": "Do Large Language Models Know How Much They Know?", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as highly capable systems and are increasingly being integrated into various uses. Nevertheless, the rapid advancement in their deployment trails a comprehensive understanding of their internal mechanisms, as well as a delineation of their capabilities and limitations. A desired characteristic of an intelligent system is its ability to recognize the scope of its own knowledge. To investigate whether LLMs embody this attribute, we develop a benchmark that challenges these models to enumerate all information they possess on specific topics. This benchmark assesses whether the models recall excessive, insufficient, or the precise amount of required information, thereby indicating their awareness of how much they know about the given topic. Our findings reveal that the emergence of this property varies across different architectures and manifests at diverse rates. However, with sufficient scaling, all tested models are ultimately capable of performing this task. The insights gained from this research advance our understanding of LLMs, shedding light on their operational capabilities and contributing to the ongoing exploration of their intricate dynamics."}
{"Title": "Investigating Mysteries of CoT-Augmented Distillation", "Abstract": "Eliciting chain of thought (CoT) rationales - sequences of token that convey a {``}reasoning{''} process has been shown to consistently improve LLM performance on tasks like question answering. More recent efforts have shown that such rationales can also be used for model distillation: Including CoT sequences (elicited from a large {``}teacher{''} model) in addition to target labels when fine-tuning a small student model yields (often substantial) improvements. In this work we ask: Why and how does this additional training signal help in model distillation? We perform ablations to interrogate this, and report some potentially surprising results. Specifically: (1) Placing CoT sequences after labels (rather than before) realizes consistently better downstream performance {--} this means that no student {``}reasoning{''} is necessary at test time to realize gains. (2) When rationales are appended in this way, they need not be coherent reasoning sequences to yield improvements; performance increases are robust to permutations of CoT tokens, for example. In fact, (3) a small number of key tokens are sufficient to achieve improvements equivalent to those observed when full rationales are used in model distillation."}
{"Title": "SciPrompt: Knowledge-augmented Prompting for Fine-grained Categorization of Scientific Topics", "Abstract": "Prompt-based fine-tuning has become an essential method for eliciting information encoded in pre-trained language models for a variety of tasks, including text classification. For multi-class classification tasks, prompt-based fine-tuning under low-resource scenarios has resulted in performance levels comparable to those of fully fine-tuning methods. Previous studies have used crafted prompt templates and verbalizers, mapping from the label terms space to the class space, to solve the classification problem as a masked language modeling task. However, cross-domain and fine-grained prompt-based fine-tuning with an automatically enriched verbalizer remains unexplored, mainly due to the difficulty and costs of manually selecting domain label terms for the verbalizer, which requires humans with domain expertise. To address this challenge, we introduce SciPrompt, a framework designed to automatically retrieve scientific topic-related terms for low-resource text classification tasks. To this end, we select semantically correlated and domain-specific label terms within the context of scientific literature for verbalizer augmentation. Furthermore, we propose a new verbalization strategy that uses correlation scores as additional weights to enhance the prediction performance of the language model during model tuning. Our method outperforms state-of-the-art, prompt-based fine-tuning methods on scientific text classification tasks under few and zero-shot settings, especially in classifying fine-grained and emerging scientific topics."}
{"Title": "Distilling Knowledge from Text-to-Image Generative Models Improves Visio-Linguistic Reasoning in CLIP", "Abstract": "Image-text contrastive models like CLIP have wide applications in zero-shot classification, image-text retrieval, and transfer learning. However, they often struggle on compositional visio-linguistic tasks (e.g., attribute-binding or object-relationships) where their performance is no better than random chance. To address this, we introduce SDS-CLIP, a lightweight and sample-efficient distillation method to enhance CLIP{'}s compositional visio-linguistic reasoning. Our approach fine-tunes CLIP using a distillation objective borrowed from large text-to-image generative models like Stable-Diffusion, which are known for their strong visio-linguistic reasoning abilities. On the challenging Winoground benchmark, SDS-CLIP improves the visio-linguistic performance of various CLIP models by up to 7{\\%}, while on the ARO dataset, it boosts performance by up to 3{\\%}. This work underscores the potential of well-designed distillation objectives from generative models to enhance contrastive image-text models with improved visio-linguistic reasoning capabilities."}
{"Title": "Learning from Natural Language Explanations for Generalizable Entity Matching", "Abstract": "Entity matching is the task of linking records from different sources that refer to the same real-world entity. Past work has primarily treated entity linking as a standard supervised learning problem. However, supervised entity matching models often do not generalize well to new data, and collecting exhaustive labeled training data is often cost prohibitive. Further, recent efforts have adopted LLMs for this task in few/zero-shot settings, exploiting their general knowledge. But LLMs are prohibitively expensive for performing inference at scale for real-world entity matching tasks.As an efficient alternative, we re-cast entity matching as a conditional generation task as opposed to binary classification. This enables us to {``}distill{''} LLM reasoning into smaller entity matching models via natural language explanations. This approach achieves strong performance, especially on out-of-domain generalization tests (10.85{\\%} F-1) where standalone generative methods struggle. We perform ablations that highlight the importance of explanations, both for performance and model robustness."}
{"Title": "Do You Know What You Are Talking About? Characterizing Query-Knowledge Relevance For Reliable Retrieval Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Language models (LMs) are known to suffer from hallucinations and misinformation. Retrieval augmented generation (RAG) that retrieves verifiable information from an external knowledge corpus to complement the parametric knowledge in LMs provides a tangible solution to these problems. However, the generation quality of RAG is highly dependent on the relevance between a user{'}s query and the retrieved documents. Inaccurate responses may be generated when the query is outside of the scope of knowledge represented in the external knowledge corpus or if the information in the corpus is out-of-date. In this work, we establish a statistical framework that assesses how well a query can be answered by an RAG system by capturing the relevance of knowledge. We introduce an online testing procedure that employs goodness-of-fit (GoF) tests to inspect the relevance of each user query to detect out-of-knowledge queries with low knowledge relevance. Additionally, we develop an offline testing framework that examines a collection of user queries, aiming to detect significant shifts in the query distribution which indicates the knowledge corpus is no longer sufficiently capable of supporting the interests of the users. We demonstrate the capabilities of these strategies through a systematic evaluation on eight question-answering (QA) datasets, the results of which indicate that the new testing framework is an efficient solution to enhance the reliability of existing RAG systems."}
{"Title": "On the Reliability of Psychological Scales on Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Recent research has focused on examining Large Language Models{'} (LLMs) characteristics from a psychological standpoint, acknowledging the necessity of understanding their behavioral characteristics. The administration of personality tests to LLMs has emerged as a noteworthy area in this context. However, the suitability of employing psychological scales, initially devised for humans, on LLMs is a matter of ongoing debate. Our study aims to determine the reliability of applying personality assessments to LLMs, explicitly investigating whether LLMs demonstrate consistent personality traits. Analysis of 2,500 settings per model, including GPT-3.5, GPT-4, Gemini-Pro, and LLaMA-3.1, reveals that various LLMs show consistency in responses to the Big Five Inventory, indicating a satisfactory level of reliability. Furthermore, our research explores the potential of GPT-3.5 to emulate diverse personalities and represent various groups{---}a capability increasingly sought after in social sciences for substituting human participants with LLMs to reduce costs. Our findings reveal that LLMs have the potential to represent different personalities with specific prompt instructions."}
{"Title": "Contrastive Entity Coreference and Disambiguation for Historical Texts", "Abstract": "Massive-scale historical document collections are crucial for social science research. Despite increasing digitization, these documents typically lack unique cross-document identifiers for individuals mentioned within the texts, as well as individual identifiers from external knowledge bases like Wikipedia/Wikidata. Existing entity disambiguation methods often fall short in accuracy for historical documents, which are replete with individuals not remembered in contemporary knowledge bases. This study makes three key contributions to improve cross-document coreference resolution and disambiguation in historical texts: a massive-scale training dataset replete with hard negatives - that sources over 190 million entity pairs from Wikipedia contexts and disambiguation pages - high-quality evaluation data from hand-labeled historical newswire articles, and trained models evaluated on this historical benchmark. We contrastively train bi-encoder models for coreferencing and disambiguating individuals in historical texts, achieving accurate, scalable performance that identifies out-of-knowledge base individuals. Our approach significantly surpasses other entity disambiguation models on our historical newswire benchmark. Our models also demonstrate competitive performance on modern entity disambiguation benchmarks, particularly on certain news disambiguation datasets."}
{"Title": "Finer: Investigating and Enhancing Fine-Grained Visual Concept Recognition in Large Vision Language Models", "Abstract": "Recent advances in instruction-tuned Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) have imbued the models with the ability to generate high-level, image-grounded explanations with ease. While such capability is largely attributed to the rich world knowledge contained within the Large Language Models (LLMs), our work reveals their shortcomings in fine-grained visual categorization (FGVC) across six different benchmark settings. Most recent state-of-the-art LVLMs such as LLaVa-1.5, InstructBLIP and GPT-4V not only severely deteriorate in terms of classification performance, e.g., average drop of 65.58 in EM for Stanford Dogs for LLaVA-1.5, but also struggle to generate descriptive visual attributes based on a concept that appears within an input image despite their prominent zero-shot image captioning ability. In-depth analyses show that instruction-tuned LVLMs suffer from modality gap, showing discrepancy when given textual and visual inputs that correspond to the same concept. In an effort to further the community{'}s endeavor in this direction, we propose a multiple granularity attribute-centric benchmark and training mixture, Finer, which aims to establish a ground to evaluate LVLMs{'} fine-grained visual comprehension ability and provide significantly improved explainability."}
{"Title": "Evaluating LLMs for Targeted Concept Simplification for Domain-Specific Texts", "Abstract": "One useful application of NLP models is to support people in reading complex text from unfamiliar domains (e.g., scientific articles). Simplifying the entire text makes it understandable but sometimes removes important details. On the contrary, helping adult readers understand difficult concepts in context can enhance their vocabulary and knowledge. In a preliminary human study, we first identify that lack of context and unfamiliarity with difficult concepts is a major reason for adult readers{'} difficulty with domain-specific text. We then introduce targeted concept simplification, a simplification task for rewriting text to help readers comprehend text containing unfamiliar concepts. We also introduce WikiDomains, a new dataset of 22k definitions from 13 academic domains paired with a difficult concept within each definition. We benchmark the performance of open-source and commercial LLMs and a simple dictionary baseline on this task across human judgments of ease of understanding and meaning preservation. Interestingly, our human judges preferred explanations about the difficult concept more than simplifications of the concept phrase. Further, no single model achieved superior performance across all quality dimensions, and automated metrics also show low correlations with human evaluations of concept simplification ({\\textasciitilde}0.2), opening up rich avenues for research on personalized human reading comprehension support."}
{"Title": "VLFeedback: A Large-Scale AI Feedback Dataset for Large Vision-Language Models Alignment", "Abstract": "As large vision-language models (LVLMs) evolve rapidly, the demand for high-quality and diverse data to align these models becomes increasingly crucial. However, the creation of such data with human supervision proves costly and time-intensive. In this paper, we investigate the efficacy of AI feedback to scale supervision for aligning LVLMs. We introduce VLFeedback, the first large-scale vision-language feedback dataset, comprising over 82K multi-modal instructions and comprehensive rationales generated by off-the-shelf models without human annotations. To evaluate the effectiveness of AI feedback for vision-language alignment, we train Silkie, an LVLM fine-tuned via direct preference optimization on VLFeedback. Silkie showcases exceptional performance regarding helpfulness, visual faithfulness, and safety metrics. It outperforms its base model by 6.9{\\%} and 9.5{\\%} in perception and cognition tasks, reduces hallucination issues on MMHal-Bench, and exhibits enhanced resilience against red-teaming attacks. Furthermore, our analysis underscores the advantage of AI feedback, particularly in fostering preference diversity to deliver more comprehensive improvements. Our dataset, training code and models are available at \\url{https://vlf-silkie.github.io}."}
{"Title": "Focused Large Language Models are Stable Many-Shot Learners", "Abstract": "In-Context Learning (ICL) enables large language models (LLMs) to achieve rapid task adaptation by learning from demonstrations. With the increase in available context length of LLMs, recent experiments have shown that the performance of ICL does not necessarily scale well in many-shot (demonstration) settings. We hypothesize that the reason lies in more demonstrations dispersing the model attention from the query, hindering its understanding of key content, which we validate both theoretically and experimentally. Inspired by how humans learn from examples, we propose a training-free method FocusICL, which conducts triviality filtering to avoid attention being diverted by unimportant contents at token-level and operates hierarchical attention to further ensure sufficient attention towards current query at demonstration-level. We also design an efficient hyperparameter searching strategy for FocusICL based on model perplexity of demonstrations. Comprehensive experiments validate that FocusICL achieves an average performance improvement of 5.2{\\%} over vanilla ICL and scales well with many-shot demonstrations."}
{"Title": "Reconsidering Sentence-Level Sign Language Translation", "Abstract": "Historically, sign language machine translation has been posed as a sentence-level task: datasets consisting of continuous narratives are chopped up and presented to the model as isolated clips. In this work, we explore the limitations of this task framing. First, we survey a number of linguistic phenomena in sign languages that depend on discourse-level context. Then as a case study, we perform the first human baseline for sign language translation that actually substitutes a human into the machine learning task framing, rather than provide the human with the entire document as context. This human baseline{---}for ASL to English translation on the How2Sign dataset{---}shows that for 33{\\%} of sentences in our sample, our fluent Deaf signer annotators were only able to understand key parts of the clip in light of additional discourse-level context. These results underscore the importance of understanding and sanity checking examples when adapting machine learning to new domains."}
{"Title": "GAMA: A Large Audio-Language Model with Advanced Audio Understanding and Complex Reasoning Abilities", "Abstract": "Perceiving and understanding non-speech sounds and non-verbal speech is essential to making decisions that help us interact with our surroundings. In this paper, we propose GAMA, a novel General-purpose Large Audio-Language Model (LALM) with Advanced Audio Understanding and Complex Reasoning Abilities. We build GAMA by integrating an LLM with multiple types of audio representations, including features from a custom Audio Q-Former, a multi-layer aggregator that aggregates features from multiple layers of an audio encoder. We fine-tune GAMA on a large-scale audio-language dataset, which augments it with audio understanding capabilities. Next, we propose CompA-R (Instruction-Tuning for Complex Audio Reasoning), a synthetically generated instruction-tuning (IT) dataset with instructions that require the model to perform complex reasoning on the input audio. We instruction-tune GAMA with CompA-R to endow it with complex reasoning abilities, where we further add a soft prompt as input with high-level semantic evidence by leveraging event tags of the input audio. Finally, we also propose CompA-R-test, a human-labeled evaluation dataset for evaluating the capabilities of LALMs on open-ended audio question-answering that requires complex reasoning. Through automated and expert human evaluations, we show that GAMA outperforms all other LALMs in literature on diverse audio understanding tasks by margins of 1{\\%}-84{\\%} and demonstrates state-of-the-art performance on deductive reasoning and hallucination evaluation benchmarks. Further, GAMA IT-ed on CompA-R proves to be superior in its complex reasoning capabilities."}
{"Title": "Verba volant, scripta volant? Don't worry! There are computational solutions for protoword reconstruction", "Abstract": "We introduce a new database of cognate words and etymons for the five main Romance languages, the most comprehensive one to date. We propose a strong benchmark for the automatic reconstruction of protowords for Romance languages, by applying a set of machine learning models and features on these data. The best results reach 90{\\%} accuracy in predicting the protoword of a given cognate set, surpassing existing state-of-the-art results for this task and showing that computational methods can be very useful in assisting linguists with protoword reconstruction."}
{"Title": "ChatGPT Doesn't Trust Chargers Fans: Guardrail Sensitivity in Context", "Abstract": "While the biases of language models in production are extensively documented, the biases of their guardrails have been neglected. This paper studies how contextual information about the user influences the likelihood of an LLM to refuse to execute a request. By generating user biographies that offer ideological and demographic information, we find a number of biases in guardrail sensitivity on GPT-3.5. Younger, female, and Asian-American personas are more likely to trigger a refusal guardrail when requesting censored or illegal information. Guardrails are also sycophantic, refusing to comply with requests for a political position the user is likely to disagree with. We find that certain identity groups and seemingly innocuous information, e.g., sports fandom, can elicit changes in guardrail sensitivity similar to direct statements of political ideology. For each demographic category and even for American football team fandom, we find that ChatGPT appears to infer a likely political ideology and modify guardrail behavior accordingly."}
{"Title": "Personas as a Way to Model Truthfulness in Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are trained on vast amounts of text from the internet, which contains both factual and misleading information about the world. While unintuitive from a classic view of LMs, recent work has shown that the truth value of a statement can be elicited from the model{'}s representations. This paper presents an explanation for why LMs appear to know the truth despite not being trained with truth labels. We hypothesize that the pretraining data is generated by groups of (un)truthful agents whose outputs share common features, and they form a (un)truthful persona. By training on this data, LMs can infer and represent the persona in its activation space. This allows the model to separate truth from falsehoods and controls the truthfulness of its generation. We show evidence for the persona hypothesis via two observations: (1) we can probe whether a model{'}s answer will be truthful before it is generated; (2) finetuning a model on a set of facts improves its truthfulness on unseen topics. Next, using arithmetics as a synthetic environment, we show that structures of the pretraining data are crucial for the model to infer the truthful persona. Overall, our findings suggest that models can exploit hierarchical structures in the data to learn abstract concepts like truthfulness."}
{"Title": "Satyrn: A Platform for Analytics Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are capable of producing documents, and retrieval augmented generation (RAG) has shown itself to be a powerful method for improving accuracy without sacrificing fluency. However, not all information can be retrieved from text. We propose an approach that uses the analysis of structured data to generate fact sets that are used to guide generation in much the same way that retrieved documents are used in RAG. This analytics augmented generation (AAG) approach supports the ability to utilize standard analytic techniques to generate facts that are then converted to text and passed to an LLM. We present a neurosymbolic platform, Satyrn, that leverages AAG to produce accurate, fluent, and coherent reports grounded in large scale databases. In our experiments, we find that Satyrn generates reports in which over 86{\\%} of claims are accurate while maintaining high levels of fluency and coherence, even when using smaller language models such as Mistral-7B, as compared to GPT-4 Code Interpreter in which just 57{\\%} of claims are accurate."}
{"Title": "EH-MAM: Easy-to-Hard Masked Acoustic Modeling for Self-Supervised Speech Representation Learning", "Abstract": "In this paper, we present EH-MAM (Easy-to-Hard adaptive Masked Acoustic Modeling), a novel self-supervised learning approach for speech representation learning. In contrast to the prior methods that use random masking schemes for Masked Acoustic Modeling (MAM), we introduce a novel selective and adaptive masking strategy. Specifically, during SSL training, we progressively introduce harder regions to the model for reconstruction. Our approach automatically selects hard regions and is built on the observation that the reconstruction loss of individual frames in MAM can provide natural signals to judge the difficulty of solving the MAM pre-text task for that frame. To identify these hard regions, we employ a teacher model that first predicts the frame-wise losses and then decides which frames to mask. By learning to create challenging problems, such as identifying harder frames and solving them simultaneously, the model is able to learn more effective representations and thereby acquire a more comprehensive understanding of the speech. Quantitatively, EH-MAM outperforms several state-of-the-art baselines across various low-resource speech recognition and SUPERB benchmarks by 5{\\%}-10{\\%}. Additionally, we conduct a thorough analysis to show that the regions masked by EH-MAM effectively capture useful context across speech frames."}
{"Title": "EPO: Hierarchical LLM Agents with Environment Preference Optimization", "Abstract": "Long-horizon decision-making tasks present significant challenges for LLM-based agents due to the need for extensive planning over multiple steps. In this paper, we propose a hierarchical framework that decomposes complex tasks into manageable subgoals, utilizing separate LLMs for subgoal prediction and low-level action generation. To address the challenge of creating training signals for unannotated datasets, we develop a reward model that leverages multimodal environment feedback to automatically generate reward signals. We introduce Environment Preference Optimization (EPO), a novel method that generates preference signals from the environment{'}s feedback and uses them to train LLM-based agents. Extensive experiments on ALFRED demonstrate the state-of-the-art performance of our framework, achieving first place on the ALFRED public leaderboard and showcasing its potential to improve long-horizon decision-making in diverse environments."}
{"Title": "Detection and Measurement of Syntactic Templates in Generated Text", "Abstract": "The diversity of text can be measured beyond word-level features, however existing diversity evaluation focuses primarily on word-level features. Here we propose a method for evaluating diversity over syntactic features to characterize general repetition in models, beyond frequent $n$-grams. Specifically, we define \\textit{syntactic templates} (e.g., strings comprising parts-of-speech) and show that models tend to produce templated text in downstream tasks at a higher rate than what is found in human-reference textsWe find that most (76{\\%}) templates in model-generated text can be found in pre-training data (compared to only 35{\\%} of human-authored text), and are not overwritten during fine-tuning or alignment processes such as RLHF. The connection between templates in generated text and the pre-training data allows us to analyze syntactic templates in models where we do not have the pre-training data.We also find that templates as features are able to differentiate between models, tasks, and domains, and are useful for qualitatively evaluating common model constructions.Finally, we demonstrate the use of templates as a useful tool for analyzing style memorization of training data in LLMs."}
{"Title": "UOUO: Uncontextualized Uncommon Objects for Measuring Knowledge Horizons of Vision Language Models", "Abstract": "Smaller-scale Vision-Language Models (VLMs) often claim to perform on par with larger models in general-domain visual grounding and question-answering benchmarks while offering advantages in computational efficiency and storage. However, their ability to handle rare objects, which fall into the long tail of data distributions, is less understood. To rigorously evaluate this aspect, we introduce the {``}Uncontextualized Uncommon Objects{''} (UOUO) benchmark. This benchmark focuses on systematically testing VLMs with both large and small parameter counts on rare and specialized objects. Our comprehensive analysis reveals that while smaller VLMs maintain competitive performance on common datasets, they significantly underperform on tasks involving uncommon objects. We also propose an advanced, scalable pipeline for data collection and cleaning, ensuring the UOUO benchmark provides high-quality, challenging instances. These findings highlight the need to consider long-tail distributions when assessing the true capabilities of VLMs. Code and project details for UOUO can be found at https://zoezheng126.github.io/UOUO-Website/."}
{"Title": "Optimized Speculative Sampling for GPU Hardware Accelerators", "Abstract": "In this work, we optimize speculative sampling for parallel hardware accelerators to improve sampling speed. We notice that substantial portions of the intermediate matrices necessary for speculative sampling can be computed concurrently. This allows us to distribute the workload across multiple GPU threads, enabling simultaneous operations on matrix segments within thread blocks. This results in profiling time improvements ranging from 6{\\%} to 13{\\%} relative to the baseline implementation, without compromising accuracy. To further accelerate speculative sampling, probability distributions parameterized by softmax are approximated by sigmoid. This approximation approach results in significantly greater relative improvements in profiling time, ranging from 37{\\%} to 94{\\%}, with a minor decline in accuracy. We conduct extensive experiments on both automatic speech recognition and summarization tasks to validate the effectiveness of our optimization methods."}
{"Title": "Personalized Pieces: Efficient Personalized Large Language Models through Collaborative Efforts", "Abstract": "Personalized large language models (LLMs) aim to tailor interactions, content, and recommendations to individual user preferences. While parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods excel in performance and generalization, they are costly and limit communal benefits when used individually. To this end, we introduce Personalized Pieces (Per-Pcs), a framework that allows users to safely share and assemble personalized PEFT efficiently with collaborative efforts. Per-Pcs involves selecting sharers, breaking their PEFT into pieces, and training gates for each piece. These pieces are added to a pool, from which target users can select and assemble personalized PEFT using their history data. This approach preserves privacy and enables fine-grained user modeling without excessive storage and computation demands. Experimental results show Per-Pcs outperforms non-personalized and PEFT retrieval baselines, offering performance comparable to OPPU with significantly lower resource use across six tasks. Further analysis highlights Per-Pcs{'}s robustness concerning sharer count and selection strategy, pieces sharing ratio, and scalability in computation time and storage space. Per-Pcs{'}s modularity promotes safe sharing, making LLM personalization more efficient, effective, and widely accessible through collaborative efforts."}
{"Title": "Democratizing Large Language Models via Personalized Parameter-Efficient Fine-tuning", "Abstract": "Personalization in large language models (LLMs) is increasingly important, aiming to align the LLMs{'} interactions, content, and recommendations with individual user preferences. Recent advances have highlighted effective prompt design by enriching user queries with non-parametric knowledge through behavior history retrieval and textual profiles. However, these methods faced limitations due to a lack of model ownership, resulting in constrained customization and privacy issues, and often failed to capture complex, dynamic user behavior patterns. To address these shortcomings, we introduce One PEFT Per User (OPPU), employing personalized parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) modules to store user-specific behavior patterns and preferences. By plugging in personal PEFT parameters, users can own and use their LLMs individually. OPPU integrates parametric user knowledge in the personal PEFT parameters with non-parametric knowledge from retrieval and profiles, adapting LLMs to user behavior shifts. Experimental results demonstrate that OPPU significantly outperforms existing prompt-based methods across seven diverse tasks in the LaMP benchmark. Further studies reveal OPPU{'}s enhanced capabilities in handling user behavior shifts, modeling users at different activity levels, maintaining robustness across various user history formats, and displaying versatility with different PEFT methods."}
{"Title": "Unifying Multimodal Retrieval via Document Screenshot Embedding", "Abstract": "In the real world, documents are organized in different formats and varied modalities. Traditional retrieval pipelines require tailored document parsing techniques and content extraction modules to prepare input for indexing. This process is tedious, prone to errors, and has information loss. To this end, we propose Document Screenshot Embedding (DSE), a novel retrieval paradigm that regards document screenshots as a unified input format, which does not require any content extraction preprocess and preserves all the information in a document (e.g., text, image and layout). DSE leverages a large vision-language model to directly encode document screenshots into dense representations for retrieval. To evaluate our method, we first craft the dataset of Wiki-SS, a 1.3M Wikipedia web page screenshots as the corpus to answer the questions from the Natural Questions dataset. In such a text-intensive document retrieval setting, DSE shows competitive effectiveness compared to other text retrieval methods relying on parsing. For example, DSE outperforms BM25 by 17 points in top-1 retrieval accuracy. Additionally, in a mixed-modality task of slide retrieval, DSE significantly outperforms OCR text retrieval methods by over 15 points in nDCG@10. These experiments show that DSE is an effective document retrieval paradigm for diverse types of documents. Model checkpoints, code, and Wiki-SS collection will be released."}
{"Title": "Neuron Specialization: Leveraging Intrinsic Task Modularity for Multilingual Machine Translation", "Abstract": "Training a unified multilingual model promotes knowledge transfer but inevitably introduces negative interference. Language-specific modeling methods show promise in reducing interference. However, they often rely on heuristics to distribute capacity and struggle to foster cross-lingual transfer via isolated modules. In this paper, we explore intrinsic task modularity within multilingual networks and leverage these observations to circumvent interference under multilingual translation. We show that neurons in the feed-forward layers tend to be activated in a language-specific manner. Meanwhile, these specialized neurons exhibit structural overlaps that reflect language proximity, which progress across layers. Based on these findings, we propose Neuron Specialization, an approach that identifies specialized neurons to modularize feed-forward layers and then continuously updates them through sparse networks. Extensive experiments show that our approach achieves consistent performance gains over strong baselines with additional analyses demonstrating reduced interference and increased knowledge transfer."}
{"Title": "An Audit on the Perspectives and Challenges of Hallucinations in NLP", "Abstract": "We audit how hallucination in large language models (LLMs) is characterized in peer-reviewed literature, using a critical examination of 103 publications across NLP research. Through the examination of the literature, we identify a lack of agreement with the term {`}hallucination{'} in the field of NLP. Additionally, to compliment our audit, we conduct a survey with 171 practitioners from the field of NLP and AI to capture varying perspectives on hallucination. Our analysis calls for the necessity of explicit definitions and frameworks outlining hallucination within NLP, highlighting potential challenges, and our survey inputs provide a thematic understanding of the influence and ramifications of hallucination in society."}
{"Title": "Discovering Knowledge-Critical Subnetworks in Pretrained Language Models", "Abstract": "Pretrained language models (LMs) encode implicit representations of knowledge in their parameters. However, localizing these representations and disentangling them from each other remains an open problem. In this work, we investigate whether pretrained language models contain various *knowledge-critical* subnetworks: particular sparse computational subgraphs that can, if removed, precisely suppress specific knowledge the model has memorized. We propose a multi-objective differentiable masking scheme that can be applied to both weights and neurons to discover such subnetworks and show that we can use them to precisely remove specific knowledge from models while minimizing adverse effects on the behavior of the original model. We demonstrate our method on multiple GPT2 variants, uncovering highly sparse subnetworks (98{\\%}+ sparsity) that are critical for expressing specific collections of relational knowledge. When these subnetworks are removed, the remaining network maintains most of its initial abilities but struggles to represent the suppressed knowledge."}
{"Title": "Reconstruct Your Previous Conversations! Comprehensively Investigating Privacy Leakage Risks in Conversations with GPT Models", "Abstract": "Significant advancements have recently been made in large language models, represented by GPT models.Users frequently have multi-round private conversations with cloud-hosted GPT models for task optimization.Yet, this operational paradigm introduces additional attack surfaces, particularly in custom GPTs and hijacked chat sessions.In this paper, we introduce a straightforward yet potent Conversation Reconstruction Attack.This attack targets the contents of previous conversations between GPT models and benign users, i.e., the benign users{'} input contents during their interaction with GPT models.The adversary could induce GPT models to leak such contents by querying them with designed malicious prompts.Our comprehensive examination of privacy risks during the interactions with GPT models under this attack reveals GPT-4{'}s considerable resilience.We present two advanced attacks targeting improved reconstruction of past conversations, demonstrating significant privacy leakage across all models under these advanced techniques.Evaluating various defense mechanisms, we find them ineffective against these attacks.Our findings highlight the ease with which privacy can be compromised in interactions with GPT models, urging the community to safeguard against potential abuses of these models{'} capabilities."}
{"Title": "Right for Right Reasons: Large Language Models for Verifiable Commonsense Knowledge Graph Question Answering", "Abstract": "Knowledge Graph Question Answering (KGQA) methods seek to answer Natural Language questions using the relational information stored in Knowledge Graphs (KGs). With the recent advancements of Large Language Models (LLMs) and their remarkable reasoning abilities, there is a growing trend to leverage them for KGQA. However, existing methodologies have only focused on answering factual questions, e.g., *{``}In which city was Silvio Berlusconi{'}s first wife born?{''}*, leaving questions involving commonsense reasoning that real-world users may pose more often, e.g., *{``}Do I need separate visas to see the Venus of Willendorf and attend the Olympics this summer?{''}* unaddressed. In this work, we first observe that existing LLM-based methods for KGQA struggle with hallucination on such questions, especially on queries targeting long-tail entities (e.g., non-mainstream and recent entities), thus hindering their applicability in real-world applications especially since their reasoning processes are not easily verifiable. In response, we propose Right for Right Reasons ($R^3$), a commonsense KGQA methodology that allows for a verifiable reasoning procedure by axiomatically surfacing intrinsic commonsense knowledge of LLMs and grounding every factual reasoning step on KG triples. Through experimental evaluations across three different tasks{---}question answering, claim verification, and preference matching{---}our findings showcase $R^3$ as a superior approach, outperforming existing methodologies and notably reducing instances of hallucination and reasoning errors."}
{"Title": "Verifiable, Debuggable, and Repairable Commonsense Logical Reasoning via LLM-based Theory Resolution", "Abstract": "Recent advances in Large Language Models (LLM) have led to substantial interest in their application to commonsense reasoning tasks. Despite their potential, LLMs are susceptible to reasoning errors and hallucinations that may be harmful in use cases where accurate reasoning is critical. This challenge underscores the need for verifiable, debuggable, and repairable LLM reasoning. Recent works have made progress toward verifiable reasoning with LLMs by using them as either (i) a reasoner over an axiomatic knowledge base, or (ii) a semantic parser for use in existing logical inference systems. However, both settings are unable to extract commonsense axioms from the LLM that are not already formalized in the knowledge base, and also lack a reliable method to repair missed commonsense inferences. In this work, we present LLM-TRes, a logical reasoning framework based on the notion of {``}theory resolution{''} that allows for seamless integration of the commonsense knowledge from LLMs with a verifiable logical reasoning framework that mitigates hallucinations and facilitates debugging of the reasoning procedure as well as repair. We crucially prove that repaired axioms are theoretically guaranteed to be given precedence over flawed ones in our theory resolution inference process. We conclude by evaluating on three diverse language-based reasoning tasks{---}preference reasoning, deductive reasoning, and causal commonsense reasoning{---}and demonstrate the superior performance of LLM-TRes vs. state-of-the-art LLM-based reasoning methods in terms of both accuracy and reasoning correctness."}
{"Title": "Understanding and Mitigating Language Confusion in LLMs", "Abstract": "We investigate a surprising limitation of LLMs: their inability to consistently generate text in a user{'}s desired language. We create the Language Confusion Benchmark (LCB) to evaluate such failures, covering 15 typologically diverse languages with existing and newly-created English and multilingual prompts. We evaluate a range of LLMs on monolingual and cross-lingual generation reflecting practical use cases, finding that Llama Instruct and Mistral models exhibit high degrees of language confusion and even the strongest models fail to consistently respond in the correct language. We observe that base and English-centric instruct models are more prone to language confusion, which is aggravated by complex prompts and high sampling temperatures. We find that language confusion can be partially mitigated via few-shot prompting, multilingual SFT and preference tuning. We release our language confusion benchmark, which serves as a first layer of efficient, scalable multilingual evaluation."}
{"Title": "Can Large Language Models Learn Independent Causal Mechanisms?", "Abstract": "Despite impressive performance on language modelling and complex reasoning tasks, Large Language Models (LLMs) fall short on the same tasks in uncommon settings or with distribution shifts, exhibiting a lack of generalisation ability. By contrast, systems such as causal models, that learn abstract variables and causal relationships, can demonstrate increased robustness against changes in the distribution. One reason for this success is the existence and use of Independent Causal Mechanisms (ICMs) representing high-level concepts that only sparsely interact. In this work, we apply two concepts from causality to learn ICMs within LLMs. We develop a new LLM architecture composed of multiple sparsely interacting language modelling modules. We show that such causal constraints can improve out-of-distribution performance on abstract and causal reasoning tasks. We also investigate the level of independence and domain specialisation and show that LLMs rely on pre-trained partially domain-invariant mechanisms resilient to fine-tuning."}
{"Title": "MirrorStories: Reflecting Diversity through Personalized Narrative Generation with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "This study explores the effectiveness of Large Language Models (LLMs) in creating personalized {``}mirror stories{''} that reflect and resonate with individual readers{'} identities, addressing the significant lack of diversity in literature. We present MirrorStories, a corpus of 1,500 personalized short stories generated by integrating elements such as name, gender, age, ethnicity, reader interest, and story moral. We demonstrate that LLMs can effectively incorporate diverse identity elements into narratives, with human evaluators identifying personalized elements in the stories with high accuracy. Through a comprehensive evaluation involving 26 diverse human judges, we compare the effectiveness of MirrorStories against generic narratives. We find that personalized LLM-generated stories not only outscore generic human-written and LLM-generated ones across all metrics of engagement (with average ratings of 4.22 versus 3.37 on a 5-point scale), but also achieve higher textual diversity while preserving the intended moral. We also provide analyses that include bias assessments and a study on the potential for integrating images into personalized stories."}
{"Title": "InterIntent: Investigating Social Intelligence of LLMs via Intention Understanding in an Interactive Game Context", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated the potential to mimic human social intelligence. However, most studies focus on simplistic and static self-report or performance-based tests, which limits the depth and validity of the analysis. In this paper, we developed a novel framework, InterIntent, to assess LLMs{'} social intelligence by mapping their ability to understand and manage intentions in a game setting. We focus on four dimensions of social intelligence: situational awareness, self-regulation, self-awareness, and theory of mind. Each dimension is linked to a specific game task: intention selection, intention following, intention summarization, and intention guessing. Our findings indicate that while LLMs exhibit high proficiency in selecting intentions, achieving an accuracy of 88{\\%}, their ability to infer the intentions of others is significantly weaker, trailing human performance by 20{\\%}. Additionally, game performance correlates with intention understanding, highlighting the importance of the four components towards success in this game. These findings underline the crucial role of intention understanding in evaluating LLMs{'} social intelligence and highlight the potential of using social deduction games as a complex testbed to enhance LLM evaluation. InterIntent contributes a structured approach to bridging the evaluation gap in social intelligence within multiplayer LLM-based games."}
{"Title": "Locating Information Gaps and Narrative Inconsistencies Across Languages: A Case Study of LGBT People Portrayals on Wikipedia", "Abstract": "To explain social phenomena and identify systematic biases, much research in computational social science focuses on comparative text analyses. These studies often rely on coarse corpus-level statistics or local word-level analyses, mainly in English. We introduce the InfoGap method{---}an efficient and reliable approach to locating information gaps and inconsistencies in articles at the fact level, across languages. We evaluate InfoGap by analyzing LGBT people{'}s portrayals, across 2.7K biography pages on English, Russian, and French Wikipedias. We find large discrepancies in factual coverage across the languages. Moreover, our analysis reveals that biographical facts carrying negative connotations are more likely to be highlighted in Russian Wikipedia. Crucially, InfoGap both facilitates large scale analyses, and pinpoints local document- and fact-level information gaps, laying a new foundation for targeted and nuanced comparative language analysis at scale."}
{"Title": "From Local Concepts to Universals: Evaluating the Multicultural Understanding of Vision-Language Models", "Abstract": "Despite recent advancements in vision-language models, their performance remains suboptimal on images from non-western cultures due to underrepresentation in training datasets. Various benchmarks have been proposed to test models{'} cultural inclusivity. Still, they have limited coverage of cultures and do not adequately assess cultural diversity across universal and culture-specific local concepts. To address these limitations, we introduce the GlobalRG benchmark, comprising two challenging tasks: retrieval across universals and cultural visual grounding. The former task entails retrieving culturally diverse images for universal concepts from 50 countries, while the latter aims at grounding culture-specific concepts within images from 15 countries. Our evaluation across a wide range of models reveals that the performance varies significantly across cultures {--} underscoring the necessity for enhancing multicultural understanding in vision-language models."}
{"Title": "Dynamic Multi-Reward Weighting for Multi-Style Controllable Generation", "Abstract": "Textual style expresses a diverse set of information, including interpersonal dynamics (e.g., formality) and the author{'}s emotions or attitudes (e.g., disgust). An open question is how language models can be explicitly controlled so that they weave together target styles when generating text: for example, to produce text that is both negative and non-toxic. One approach to such controlled generation is multi-objective reinforcement learning (RL), but how to best combine multiple objectives in a reward function is an open question. In this paper, we investigate various formulations of multi-style reward formulations, including calibrated outputs from discriminators and dynamic weighting by discriminator gradient magnitudes. We find that our proposed dynamic weighting outperforms static weighting approaches with respect style control while maintaining linguistic quality, and we explore its effectiveness in 2- and 3-style control."}
{"Title": "MMNeuron: Discovering Neuron-Level Domain-Specific Interpretation in Multimodal Large Language Model", "Abstract": "Projecting visual features into word embedding space has become a significant fusion strategy adopted by Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs). However, its internal mechanisms have yet to be explored. Inspired by multilingual research, we identify domain-specific neurons in multimodal large language models. Specifically, we investigate the distribution of domain-specific neurons and the mechanism of how MLLMs process features from diverse domains. Furthermore, we propose a three-stage framework for language model modules in MLLMs when handling projected image features, and verify this hypothesis using logit lens. Extensive experiments indicate that while current MLLMs exhibit Visual Question Answering (VQA) capability, they may not fully utilize domain-specific information. Manipulating domain-specific neurons properly will result in a 10{\\%} change of accuracy at most, shedding light on the development of cross-domain, all-encompassing MLLMs in the future. The source code is available at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/MMNeuron."}
{"Title": "Learning to Extract Structured Entities Using Language Models", "Abstract": "Recent advances in machine learning have significantly impacted the field of information extraction, with Language Models (LMs) playing a pivotal role in extracting structured information from unstructured text. Prior works typically represent information extraction as triplet-centric and use classical metrics such as precision and recall for evaluation. We reformulate the task to be entity-centric, enabling the use of diverse metrics that can provide more insights from various perspectives. We contribute to the field by introducing Structured Entity Extraction and proposing the Approximate Entity Set OverlaP (AESOP) metric, designed to appropriately assess model performance. Later, we introduce a new Multistage Structured Entity Extraction (MuSEE) model that harnesses the power of LMs for enhanced effectiveness and efficiency by decomposing the extraction task into multiple stages. Quantitative and human side-by-side evaluations confirm that our model outperforms baselines, offering promising directions for future advancements in structured entity extraction. Our source code is available at https://github.com/microsoft/Structured-Entity-Extraction."}
{"Title": "Efficient LLM Comparative Assessment: A Product of Experts Framework for Pairwise Comparisons", "Abstract": "LLM-as-a-judge approaches are a practical and effective way of assessing a range of text tasks. However, when using pairwise comparisons to rank a set of candidates, the computational cost scales quadratically with the number of candidates, which has practical limitations. This paper introduces a Product of Expert (PoE) framework for efficient LLM Comparative Assessment. Here individual comparisons are considered experts that provide information on a pair{'}s score difference. The PoE framework combines the information from these experts to yield an expression that can be maximized with respect to the underlying set of candidates, and is highly flexible where any form of expert can be assumed. When Gaussian experts are used one can derive simple closed-form solutions for the optimal candidate ranking, as well as expressions for selecting which comparisons should be made to maximize the probability of this ranking. Our approach enables efficient comparative assessment, where by using only a small subset of the possible comparisons, one can generate score predictions that correlate well with human judgements. We evaluate the approach on multiple NLG tasks and demonstrate that our framework can yield considerable computational savings when performing pairwise comparative assessment. With many candidate texts, using as few as 2{\\%} of comparisons the PoE solution can achieve similar performance to when all comparisons are used."}
{"Title": "A Survey of AMR Applications", "Abstract": "In the ten years since the development of the Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR) formalism, substantial progress has been made on AMR-related tasks such as parsing and alignment. Still, the engineering applications of AMR are not fully understood. In this survey, we categorize and characterize more than 100 papers which use AMR for downstream tasks{---} the first survey of this kind for AMR. Specifically, we highlight (1) the range of applications for which AMR has been harnessed, and (2) the techniques for incorporating AMR into those applications. We also detect broader AMR engineering patterns and outline areas of future work that seem ripe for AMR incorporation. We hope that this survey will be useful to those interested in using AMR and that it sparks discussion on the role of symbolic representations in the age of neural-focused NLP research."}
{"Title": "Beyond Embeddings: The Promise of Visual Table in Visual Reasoning", "Abstract": "Visual representation learning has been a cornerstone in computer vision, involving typical forms such as visual embeddings, structural symbols, and text-based representations. Despite the success of CLIP-type visual embeddings, they often lack access to world knowledge critical for visual reasoning. In this work, we propose Visual Table, a novel form of visual representation tailored for visual reasoning. Visual tables are constructed as hierarchical descriptions of visual scenes, featuring a scene description and multiple object-centric descriptions covering categories, attributes, and knowledge. Thanks to the structural and textual formats, visual tables offer unique properties over mere visual embeddings, such as explainability and controllable editing. Furthermore, they deliver instance-level world knowledge and detailed attributes that are essential for visual reasoning. To create visual tables, we develop a generator trained on the dataset with collected, small-scale annotations. Extensive results on 11 visual reasoning benchmarks demonstrate that the generated visual tables significantly outperform previous structural and text-based representations. Moreover, they consistently enhance state-of-the-art multi-modal large language models across diverse benchmarks, showcasing their potential for advancing visual reasoning tasks. Our code is available at https://github.com/LaVi-Lab/Visual-Table."}
{"Title": "CareCorpus+: Expanding and Augmenting Caregiver Strategy Data to Support Pediatric Rehabilitation", "Abstract": "Caregiver strategy classification in pediatric rehabilitation contexts is strongly motivated by real-world clinical constraints but highly under-resourced and seldom studied in natural language processing settings. We introduce a large dataset of 4,037 caregiver strategies in this setting, a five-fold increase over the nearest contemporary dataset. These strategies are manually categorized into clinically established constructs with high agreement ($\\kappa$=0.68-0.89). We also propose two techniques to further address identified data constraints. First, we manually supplement target task data with publicly relevant data from online child health forums. Next, we propose a novel data augmentation technique to generate synthetic caregiver strategies with high downstream task utility. Extensive experiments showcase the quality of our dataset. They also establish evidence that both the publicly available data and the synthetic strategies result in large performance gains, with relative F$_1$ increases of 22.6{\\%} and 50.9{\\%}, respectively."}
{"Title": "Taylor Unswift: Secured Weight Release for Large Language Models via Taylor Expansion", "Abstract": "Ensuring the security of released large language models (LLMs) poses a significant dilemma, as existing mechanisms either compromise ownership rights or raise data privacy concerns. To address this dilemma, we introduce TaylorMLP to protect the ownership of released LLMs and prevent their abuse. Specifically, TaylorMLP preserves the ownership of LLMs by transforming the weights of LLMs into parameters of Taylor-series. Instead of releasing the original weights, developers can release the Taylor-series parameters with users, thereby ensuring the security of LLMs. Moreover, TaylorMLP can prevent abuse of LLMs by adjusting the generation speed. It can induce low-speed token generation for the protected LLMs by increasing the terms in the Taylor-series. This intentional delay helps LLM developers prevent potential large-scale unauthorized uses of their models. Empirical experiments across five datasets and three LLM architectures demonstrate that TaylorMLP induces over increase in latency, producing the tokens precisely matched with original LLMs. Subsequent defensive experiments further confirm that TaylorMLP effectively prevents users from reconstructing the weight values based on downstream datasets."}
{"Title": "TimeR^4 : Time-aware Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models for Temporal Knowledge Graph Question Answering", "Abstract": "Temporal Knowledge Graph Question Answering (TKGQA) aims to answer temporal questions using knowledge in Temporal Knowledge Graphs (TKGs). Previous works employ pre-trained TKG embeddings or graph neural networks to incorporate the knowledge of TKGs. However, these methods fail to fully understand the complex semantic information of time constraints in questions.In contrast, Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown exceptional performance in knowledge graph reasoning, unifying both semantic understanding and structural reasoning. To further enhance LLMs{'} temporal reasoning ability, this paper aims to integrate relevant temporal knowledge from TKGs into LLMs through a Time-aware Retrieve-Rewrite-Retrieve-Rerank framework, which we named TimeR$^4$.Specifically, to reduce temporal hallucination in LLMs, we propose a retrieve-rewrite module to rewrite questions using background knowledge stored in the TKGs, thereby acquiring explicit time constraints. Then, we implement a retrieve-rerank module aimed at retrieving semantically and temporally relevant facts from the TKGs and reranking them according to the temporal constraints.To achieve this, we fine-tune a retriever using the contrastive time-aware learning framework.Our approach achieves great improvements, with relative gains of 47.8{\\%} and 22.5{\\%} on two datasets, underscoring its effectiveness in boosting the temporal reasoning abilities of LLMs. Our code is available at https://github.com/qianxinying/TimeR4."}
{"Title": "Knowledge-Centric Hallucination Detection", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown impressive capabilities but also a concerning tendency to hallucinate. This paper presents RefChecker, a framework that introduces claim-triplets to represent claims in LLM responses, aiming to detect fine-grained hallucinations. In RefChecker, an extractor generates claim-triplets from a response, which are then evaluated by a checker against a reference. We delineate three task settings: Zero, Noisy and Accurate Context, to reflect various real-world use cases. We curated a benchmark spanning various NLP tasks and annotated 11k claim-triplets from 2.1k responses by seven LLMs. RefChecker supports both proprietary and open-source models as the extractor and checker. Experiments demonstrate that claim-triplets enable superior hallucination detection, compared to other granularities such as response, sentence and sub-sentence level claims. RefChecker outperforms prior methods by 18.2 to 27.2 points on our benchmark and the checking results of RefChecker are strongly aligned with human judgments."}
{"Title": "Revealing the Parallel Multilingual Learning within Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) can handle multilingual and cross-lingual text within a single input; however, previous works leveraging multilingualism in LLMs primarily focus on using English as the pivot language to enhance language understanding and reasoning. Given that multiple languages are a compensation for the losses caused by a single language{'}s limitations, it{'}s a natural next step to enrich the model{'}s learning context through the integration of the original input with its multiple translations. In this paper, we start by revealing that LLMs learn from parallel multilingual input (PMI). Our comprehensive evaluation shows that PMI enhances the model{'}s comprehension of the input, achieving superior performance than conventional in-context learning (ICL). Furthermore, to explore how multilingual processing affects prediction, we examine the activated neurons in LLMs. Surprisingly, involving more languages in the input activates fewer neurons, leading to more focused and effective neural activation patterns. Also, this neural reaction coincidently mirrors the neuroscience insight about synaptic pruning, highlighting a similarity between artificial and biological {`}brains{'}."}
{"Title": "Automatic Instruction Evolving for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Fine-tuning large pre-trained language models with Evol-Instruct has achieved encouraging results across a wide range of tasks. However, designing effective evolving methods for instruction evolution requires substantial human expertise. This paper proposes Auto Evol-Instruct, an end-to-end framework that evolves instruction datasets using large language models without any human effort. The framework automatically analyzes and summarizes suitable evolutionary strategies for the given instruction data and iteratively improves the evolving method based on issues exposed during the instruction evolution process. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that the best method optimized by Auto Evol-Instruct outperforms human-designed methods on various benchmarks, including MT-Bench, AlpacaEval, GSM8K, and HumanEval."}
{"Title": "RepEval: Effective Text Evaluation with LLM Representation", "Abstract": "The era of Large Language Models (LLMs) raises new demands for automatic evaluation metrics, which should be adaptable to various application scenarios while maintaining low cost and effectiveness. Traditional metrics for automatic text evaluation are often tailored to specific scenarios, while LLM-based evaluation metrics are costly, requiring fine-tuning or rely heavily on the generation capabilities of LLMs. Besides, previous LLM-based metrics ignore the fact that, within the space of LLM representations, there exist direction vectors that indicate the estimation of text quality. To this end, we introduce RepEval, a metric that leverages the projection of LLM representations for evaluation. Through simple prompt modifications, RepEval can easily transition to various tasks, requiring only minimal sample pairs for direction vector construction. Results on fourteen datasets across two evaluation tasks demonstrate the high effectiveness of our method, which exhibits a higher correlation with human judgments than previous methods, even in complex evaluation scenarios involving pair-wise selection under nuanced aspects. Our work underscores the richness of information regarding text quality embedded within LLM representations, offering insights for the development of new metrics."}
{"Title": "Generative Models for Automatic Medical Decision Rule Extraction from Text", "Abstract": "Medical decision rules play a key role in many clinical decision support systems (CDSS). However, these rules are conventionally constructed by medical experts, which is expensive and hard to scale up. In this study, we explore the automatic extraction of medical decision rules from text, leading to a solution to construct large-scale medical decision rules. We adopt a formulation of medical decision rules as binary trees consisting of condition/decision nodes. Such trees are referred to as medical decision trees and we introduce several generative models to extract them from text. The proposed models inherit the merit of two categories of successful natural language generation frameworks, i.e., sequence-to-sequence generation and autoregressive generation. To unleash the potential of pretrained language models, we design three styles of linearization (natural language, augmented natural language and JSON code), acting as the target sequence for our models. Our final system achieves 67{\\%} tree accuracy on a comprehensive Chinese benchmark, outperforming state-of-the-art baseline by 12{\\%}. The result demonstrates the effectiveness of generative models on explicitly modeling structural decision-making roadmaps, and shows great potential to boost the development of CDSS and explainable AI. Our code will be open-source upon acceptance."}
{"Title": "Encoding and Controlling Global Semantics for Long-form Video Question Answering", "Abstract": "Seeking answers effectively for long videos is essential to build video question answering (videoQA) systems. Previous methods adaptively select frames and regions from long videos to save computations. However, this fails to reason over the whole sequence of video, leading to sub-optimal performance. To address this problem, we introduce a state space layer (SSL) into multi-modal Transformer to efficiently integrate global semantics of the video, which mitigates the video information loss caused by frame and region selection modules. Our SSL includes a gating unit to enable controllability over the flow of global semantics into visual representations. To further enhance the controllability, we introduce a cross-modal compositional congruence objective to encourage global semantics aligned with the question. To rigorously evaluate long-form videoQA capacity, we construct two new benchmarks Ego-QA and MAD-QA featuring videos of considerably long length, i.e. 17.5 minutes and 1.9 hours, respectively. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our framework on these new as well as existing datasets."}
{"Title": "Towards Understanding Jailbreak Attacks in LLMs: A Representation Space Analysis", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are susceptible to a type of attack known as jailbreaking, which misleads LLMs to output harmful contents. Although there are diverse jailbreak attack strategies, there is no unified understanding on why some methods succeed and others fail. This paper explores the behavior of harmful and harmless prompts in the LLM{'}s representation space to investigate the intrinsic properties of successful jailbreak attacks. We hypothesize that successful attacks share some similar properties: They are effective in moving the representation of the harmful prompt towards the direction to the harmless prompts. We leverage hidden representations into the objective of existing jailbreak attacks to move the attacks along the acceptance direction, and conduct experiments to validate the above hypothesis using the proposed objective. We hope this study provides new insights into understanding how LLMs understand harmfulness information."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Legal Case Retrieval via Scaling High-quality Synthetic Query-Candidate Pairs", "Abstract": "Legal case retrieval (LCR) aims to provide similar cases as references for a given fact description. This task is crucial for promoting consistent judgments in similar cases, effectively enhancing judicial fairness and improving work efficiency for judges. However, existing works face two main challenges for real-world applications: existing works mainly focus on case-to-case retrieval using lengthy queries, which does not match real-world scenarios; and the limited data scale, with current datasets containing only hundreds of queries, is insufficient to satisfy the training requirements of existing data-hungry neural models. To address these issues, we introduce an automated method to construct synthetic query-candidate pairs and build the largest LCR dataset to date, LEAD, which is hundreds of times larger than existing datasets. This data construction method can provide ample training signals for LCR models. Experimental results demonstrate that model training with our constructed data can achieve state-of-the-art results on two widely-used LCR benchmarks. Besides, the construction method can also be applied to civil cases and achieve promising results. The data and codes can be found in https://github.com/thunlp/LEAD."}
{"Title": "Does Large Language Model Contain Task-Specific Neurons?", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in comprehensively handling various types of natural language processing (NLP) tasks. However, there are significant differences in the knowledge and abilities required for different tasks. Therefore, it is important to understand whether the same LLM processes different tasks in the same way. Are there specific neurons in a LLM for different tasks? Inspired by neuroscience, this paper pioneers the exploration of whether distinct neurons are activated when a LLM handles different tasks. Compared with current research exploring the neurons of language and knowledge, task-specific neurons present a greater challenge due to their abstractness, diversity, and complexity. To address these challenges, this paper proposes a method for task-specific neuron localization based on Causal Gradient Variation with Special Tokens (CGVST). CGVST identifies task-specific neurons by concentrating on the most significant tokens during task processing, thereby eliminating redundant tokens and minimizing interference from non-essential neurons. Compared to traditional neuron localization methods, our approach can more effectively identify task-specific neurons. We conduct experiments across eight different public tasks. Experiments involving the inhibition and amplification of identified neurons demonstrate that our method can accurately locate task-specific neurons."}
{"Title": "Liar, Liar, Logical Mire: A Benchmark for Suppositional Reasoning in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Advancing Test-Time Adaptation in Wild Acoustic Test Settings", "Abstract": "Acoustic foundation models, fine-tuned for Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR), suffer from performance degradation in wild acoustic test settings when deployed in real-world scenarios. Stabilizing online Test-Time Adaptation (TTA) under these conditions remains an open and unexplored question. Existing wild vision TTA methods often fail to handle speech data effectively due to the unique characteristics of high-entropy speech frames, which are unreliably filtered out even when containing crucial semantic content. Furthermore, unlike static vision data, speech signals follow short-term consistency, requiring specialized adaptation strategies. In this work, we propose a novel wild acoustic TTA method tailored for ASR fine-tuned acoustic foundation models. Our method, Confidence-Enhanced Adaptation, performs frame-level adaptation using a confidence-aware weight scheme to avoid filtering out essential information in high-entropy frames. Additionally, we apply consistency regularization during test-time optimization to leverage the inherent short-term consistency of speech signals. Our experiments on both synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate that our approach outperforms existing baselines under various wild acoustic test settings, including Gaussian noise, environmental sounds, accent variations, and sung speech."}
{"Title": "Learning to Retrieve Iteratively for In-Context Learning", "Abstract": "We introduce iterative retrieval, a novel framework that empowers retrievers to make iterative decisions through policy optimization. Finding an optimal portfolio of retrieved items is a combinatorial optimization problem, generally considered NP-hard. This approach provides a learned approximation to such a solution, meeting specific task requirements under a given family of large language models (LLMs). We propose a training procedure based on reinforcement learning, incorporating feedback from LLMs. We instantiate an iterative retriever for composing in-context learning (ICL) exemplars and apply it to various semantic parsing tasks that demand synthesized programs as outputs. By adding only 4M additional parameters for state encoding, we convert an off-the-shelf dense retriever into a stateful iterative retriever, outperforming previous methods in selecting ICL exemplars on semantic parsing datasets such as CalFlow, TreeDST, and MTOP. Additionally, the trained iterative retriever generalizes across different inference LLMs beyond the one used during training."}
{"Title": "Taxonomy-guided Semantic Indexing for Academic Paper Search", "Abstract": "Academic paper search is an essential task for efficient literature discovery and scientific advancement. While dense retrieval has advanced various ad-hoc searches, it often struggles to match the underlying academic concepts between queries and documents, which is critical for paper search. To enable effective academic concept matching for paper search, we propose Taxonomy-guided Semantic Indexing (TaxoIndex) framework. TaxoIndex extracts key concepts from papers and organizes them as a semantic index guided by an academic taxonomy, and then leverages this index as foundational knowledge to identify academic concepts and link queries and documents. As a plug-and-play framework, TaxoIndex can be flexibly employed to enhance existing dense retrievers. Extensive experiments show that TaxoIndex brings significant improvements, even with highly limited training data, and greatly enhances interpretability."}
{"Title": "Python is Not Always the Best Choice: Embracing Multilingual Program of Thoughts", "Abstract": "Program of Thoughts (PoT) is an approach characterized by its executable intermediate steps, which ensure the accuracy of the logical calculations in the reasoning process. Currently, PoT primarily uses Python. However, relying solely on a single language may result in suboptimal solutions and overlook the potential benefits of other programming languages. In this paper, we conduct comprehensive experiments on the programming languages used in PoT and find that no single language consistently delivers optimal performance across all tasks and models. The effectiveness of each language varies depending on the specific scenarios. Inspired by this, we propose a task and model agnostic approach called MultiPoT, which harnesses strength and diversity from various languages. Experimental results reveal that it significantly outperforms Python Self-Consistency. Furthermore, it achieves comparable or superior performance compared to the best monolingual PoT in almost all tasks across all models. In particular, MultiPoT achieves more than 4.6{\\%} improvement on average on ChatGPT (gpt-3.5-turbo-0701)."}
{"Title": "Advancing Adversarial Suffix Transfer Learning on Aligned Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Language Language Models (LLMs) face safety concerns due to potential misuse by malicious users. Recent red-teaming efforts have identified adversarial suffixes capable of jailbreaking LLMs using the gradient-based search algorithm Greedy Coordinate Gradient (GCG). However, GCG struggles with computational inefficiency, limiting further investigations regarding suffix transferability and scalability across models and data. In this work, we bridge the connection between search efficiency and suffix transferability. We propose a two-stage transfer learning framework, DeGCG, which decouples the search process into behavior-agnostic pre-searching and behavior-relevant post-searching. Specifically, we employ direct first target token optimization in pre-searching to facilitate the search process. We apply our approach to cross-model, cross-data, and self-transfer scenarios. Furthermore, we introduce an interleaved variant of our approach, i-DeGCG, which iteratively leverages self-transferability to accelerate the search process. Experiments on HarmBench demonstrate the efficiency of our approach across various models and domains. Notably, our i-DeGCG outperforms the baseline on Llama2-chat-7b with ASRs of 43.9 ($+ 22.2$) and 39.0 ($+19.5$) on valid and test sets, respectively. Further analysis on cross-model transfer indicates the pivotal role of first target token optimization in leveraging suffix transferability for efficient searching."}
{"Title": "Incomplete Utterance Rewriting with Editing Operation Guidance and Utterance Augmentation", "Abstract": "Although existing fashionable generation methods on Incomplete Utterance Rewriting (IUR) can generate coherent utterances, they often result in the inclusion of irrelevant and redundant tokens in rewritten utterances due to their inability to focus on critical tokens in dialogue context. Furthermore, the limited size of the training datasets also contributes to the insufficient training of the IUR model. To address the first issue, we propose a multi-task learning framework EO-IUR (Editing Operation-guided Incomplete Utterance Rewriting) that introduces the editing operation labels generated by sequence labeling module to guide generation model to focus on critical tokens. Furthermore, we introduce a token-level heterogeneous graph to represent dialogues. To address the second issue, we propose a two-dimensional utterance augmentation strategy, namely editing operation-based incomplete utterance augmentation and LLM-based historical utterance augmentation. The experimental results on three datasets demonstrate that our EO-IUR outperforms previous state-of-the-art (SOTA) baselines in both open-domain and task-oriented dialogue."}
{"Title": "FRoG: Evaluating Fuzzy Reasoning of Generalized Quantifiers in LLMs", "Abstract": "Fuzzy reasoning is vital due to the frequent use of imprecise information in daily contexts. However, the ability of current large language models (LLMs) to handle such reasoning remains largely uncharted. In this paper, we introduce a new benchmark, FRoG, for fuzzy reasoning, featuring real-world mathematical word problems that incorporate generalized quantifiers. Our experimental findings reveal that fuzzy reasoning continues to pose significant challenges for LLMs. Moreover, we find that existing methods designed to enhance reasoning do not consistently improve performance in tasks involving fuzzy logic. Additionally, our results show an inverse scaling effect in the performance of LLMs on FRoG. Interestingly, we also demonstrate that strong mathematical reasoning skills are not necessarily indicative of success on our benchmark."}
{"Title": "Aligning Large Language Models with Diverse Political Viewpoints", "Abstract": "Large language models such as ChatGPT exhibit striking political biases. If users query them about political information, they often take a normative stance. To overcome this, we align LLMs with diverse political viewpoints from 100,000 comments written by candidates running for national parliament in Switzerland. Models aligned with this data can generate more accurate political viewpoints from Swiss parties, compared to commercial models such as ChatGPT. We also propose a procedure to generate balanced overviews summarizing multiple viewpoints using such models. The replication package contains all code and data."}
{"Title": "\u201cYou Gotta be a Doctor, Lin\u201d : An Investigation of Name-Based Bias of Large Language Models in Employment Recommendations", "Abstract": "Social science research has shown that candidates with names indicative of certain races or genders often face discrimination in employment practices. Similarly, Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated racial and gender biases in various applications. In this study, we utilize GPT-3.5-Turbo and Llama 3-70B-Instruct to simulate hiring decisions and salary recommendations for candidates with 320 first names that strongly signal their race and gender, across over 750,000 prompts. Our empirical results indicate a preference among these models for hiring candidates with White female-sounding names over other demographic groups across 40 occupations. Additionally, even among candidates with identical qualifications, salary recommendations vary by as much as 5{\\%} between different subgroups. A comparison with real-world labor data reveals inconsistent alignment with U.S. labor market characteristics, underscoring the necessity of risk investigation of LLM-powered systems."}
{"Title": "Extending Context Window of Large Language Models from a Distributional Perspective", "Abstract": "Scaling the rotary position embedding (RoPE) has become a common method for extending the context window of RoPE-based large language models (LLMs). However, existing scaling methods often rely on empirical approaches and lack a profound understanding of the internal distribution within RoPE, resulting in suboptimal performance in extending the context window length. In this paper, we propose to optimize the context window extending task from the view of rotary angle distribution. Specifically, we first estimate the distribution of the rotary angles within the model and analyze the extent to which length extension perturbs this distribution. Then, we present a novel extension strategy that minimizes the disturbance between rotary angle distributions to maintain consistency with the pre-training phase, enhancing the model{'}s capability to generalize to longer sequences. Experimental results compared to the strong baseline methods demonstrate that our approach reduces by up to 72{\\%} of the distributional disturbance when extending LLaMA2{'}s context window to 8k, and reduces by up to 32{\\%} when extending to 16k. On the LongBench-E benchmark, our method achieves an average improvement of up to 4.33{\\%} over existing state-of-the-art methods. Furthermore, Our method maintains the model{'}s performance on the Hugging Face Open LLM benchmark after context window extension, with only an average performance fluctuation ranging from -0.12 to +0.22."}
{"Title": "Leveraging pre-trained language models for linguistic analysis: A case of argument structure constructions", "Abstract": "This study evaluates the effectiveness of pre-trained language models in identifying argument structure constructions, important for modeling both first and second language learning. We examine three methodologies: (1) supervised training with RoBERTa using a gold-standard ASC treebank, including by-tag accuracy evaluation for sentences from both native and non-native English speakers, (2) prompt-guided annotation with GPT-4, and (3) generating training data through prompts with GPT-4, followed by RoBERTa training. Our findings indicate that RoBERTa trained on gold-standard data shows the best performance. While data generated through GPT-4 enhances training, it does not exceed the benchmarks set by gold-standard data."}
{"Title": "MAgIC: Investigation of Large Language Model Powered Multi-Agent in Cognition, Adaptability, Rationality and Collaboration", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have significantly advanced natural language processing, demonstrating exceptional reasoning, tool usage, and memory capabilities. As their applications expand into multi-agent environments, there arises a need for a comprehensive evaluation framework that captures LLMs{'} reasoning, planning, collaboration, and other social abilities. This work introduces a novel competition-based benchmark framework specifically designed to assess LLMs within multi-agent settings, providing quantitative metrics to evaluate their judgment, reasoning, deception, self-awareness, cooperation, coordination, and rationality.We utilize two social deduction games alongside three game-theory scenarios to create diverse environments.Our frame is fortified with the probabilistic graphic modeling (PGM) method, enhancing the LLMs{'} capabilities in navigating complex social and cognitive dimensions. We evaluate seven LLMs, quantitatively highlighting a significant capability gap of over threefold between the strongest, GPT o1, and the weakest, Llama-2-70B. It also confirms that our PGM enhancement boosts the abilities of all selected models by an average of 37{\\%}. Our data and code can be found here https://github.com/cathyxl/MAgIC."}
{"Title": "Position Engineering: Boosting Large Language Models through Positional Information Manipulation", "Abstract": "The performance of large language models (LLMs) is significantly influenced by the quality of the prompts provided. In response, researchers have developed enormous prompt engineering strategies aimed at modifying the prompt text to enhance task performance. In this paper, we introduce a novel technique termed position engineering, which offers a more efficient way to guide large language models. Unlike prompt engineering, which requires substantial effort to modify the text provided to LLMs, position engineering merely involves altering the positional information in the prompt without modifying the text itself. We have evaluated position engineering in two widely-used LLM scenarios: retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) and in-context learning (ICL). Our findings show that position engineering substantially improves upon the baseline in both cases. Position engineering thus represents a promising new strategy for exploiting the capabilities of large language models."}
{"Title": "Towards Injecting Medical Visual Knowledge into Multimodal LLMs at Scale", "Abstract": "The rapid development of multimodal large language models (MLLMs), such as GPT-4V, has led to significant advancements. However, these models still face challenges in medical multimodal capabilities due to limitations in the quantity and quality of medical vision-text data, stemming from data privacy concerns and high annotation costs. While pioneering approaches utilize PubMed{'}s large-scale, de-identified medical image-text pairs to address these limitations, they often fall short due to inherent data noise. To tackle this, we refined medical image-text pairs from PubMed and employed MLLMs (GPT-4V) in an {`}unblinded{'} capacity to denoise and reformat the data, resulting in the creation of the **PubMedVision** dataset with 1.3 million medical VQA samples. Our validation demonstrates that: (1) PubMedVision can significantly enhance the medical multimodal capabilities of MLLMs, showing significant improvement in benchmarks including the MMMU Health {\\&} Medicine track; (2) manual checks by medical experts and empirical results validate the superior data quality of our dataset compared to other data construction methods. Using PubMedVision, we train a 34B medical MLLM **HuatuoGPT-Vision**, which shows superior performance in medical multimodal scenarios among open-source MLLMs. Our code and data are available at https://github.com/FreedomIntelligence/HuatuoGPT-Vision."}
{"Title": "ADELIE: Aligning Large Language Models on Information Extraction", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Unveiling Factual Recall Behaviors of Large Language Models through Knowledge Neurons", "Abstract": "In this paper, we investigate whether Large Language Models (LLMs) actively recall or retrieve their internal repositories of factual knowledge when faced with reasoning tasks. Through an analysis of LLMs{'} internal factual recall at each reasoning step via Knowledge Neurons, we reveal that LLMs fail to harness the critical factual associations under certain circumstances. Instead, they tend to opt for alternative, shortcut-like pathways to answer reasoning questions. By manually manipulating the recall process of parametric knowledge in LLMs, we demonstrate that enhancing this recall process directly improves reasoning performance whereas suppressing it leads to notable degradation. Furthermore, we assess the effect of Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting, a powerful technique for addressing complex reasoning tasks. Our findings indicate that CoT can intensify the recall of factual knowledge by encouraging LLMs to engage in orderly and reliable reasoning. Furthermore, we explored how contextual conflicts affect the retrieval of facts during the reasoning process to gain a comprehensive understanding of the factual recall behaviors of LLMs. Code and data will be available soon."}
{"Title": "Lexically Grounded Subword Segmentation", "Abstract": "We present three innovations in tokenization and subword segmentation. First, we propose to use unsupervised morphological analysis with Morfessor as pre-tokenization. Second, we present an algebraic method for obtaining subword embeddings grounded in a word embedding space. Based on that, we design a novel subword segmentation algorithm that uses the embeddings, ensuring that the procedure considers lexical meaning. Third, we introduce an efficient segmentation algorithm based on a subword bigram model that can be initialized with the lexically aware segmentation method to avoid using Morfessor and large embedding tables at inference time. We evaluate the proposed approaches using two intrinsic metrics and measure their performance on two downstream tasks: part-of-speech tagging and machine translation. Our experiments show significant improvements in the morphological plausibility of the segmentation when evaluated using segmentation precision on morpheme boundaries and improved R{\\'e}nyi efficiency in 8 languages. Although the proposed tokenization methods do not have a large impact on automatic translation quality, we observe consistent performance gains in the arguably more morphological task of part-of-speech tagging."}
{"Title": "EAGLE-2: Faster Inference of Language Models with Dynamic Draft Trees", "Abstract": "Inference with modern Large Language Models (LLMs) is expensive and time-consuming, and speculative sampling has proven to be an effective solution. Most speculative sampling methods such as EAGLE use a static draft tree, implicitly assuming that the acceptance rate of draft tokens depends only on their position. Interestingly, we found that the acceptance rate of draft tokens is also context-dependent. In this paper, building upon EAGLE, we propose EAGLE-2, which introduces a new technique of context-aware dynamic draft tree into drafting modeling. This improvement leverages the fact that the draft model of EAGLE is well-calibrated: the confidence scores from the draft model approximate acceptance rates with small errors. We conducted extensive evaluations on three series of LLMs and six tasks, with EAGLE-2 achieving speedup ratios of up to **5x**, which is 1.3x that of EAGLE. EAGLE-2 also ensures that the distribution of the generated text remains unchanged, making it a **lossless** acceleration algorithm."}
{"Title": "Do Text-to-Vis Benchmarks Test Real Use of Visualisations?", "Abstract": "Large language models are able to generate code for visualisations in response to simple user requests.This is a useful application and an appealing one for NLP research because plots of data provide grounding for language.However, there are relatively few benchmarks, and those that exist may not be representative of what users do in practice.This paper investigates whether benchmarks reflect real-world use through an empirical study comparing benchmark datasets with code from public repositories.Our findings reveal a substantial gap, with evaluations not testing the same distribution of chart types, attributes, and actions as real-world examples.One dataset is representative, but requires extensive modification to become a practical end-to-end benchmark. This shows that new benchmarks are needed to support the development of systems that truly address users{'} visualisation needs.These observations will guide future data creation, highlighting which features hold genuine significance for users."}
{"Title": "Gold Panning in Vocabulary: An Adaptive Method for Vocabulary Expansion of Domain-Specific LLMs", "Abstract": "While Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate impressive generation abilities, they frequently struggle when it comes to specialized domains due to their limited domain-specific knowledge. Studies on domain-specific LLMs resort to expanding the vocabulary before fine-tuning on domain-specific corpus, aiming to decrease the sequence length and enhance efficiency during decoding, without thoroughly investigating the results of vocabulary expansion to LLMs over different domains. Our pilot study reveals that expansion with only a subset of the entire vocabulary may lead to superior performance. Guided by the discovery, this paper explores how to identify a vocabulary subset to achieve the optimal results. We introduce VEGAD, an adaptive method that automatically identifies valuable words from a given domain vocabulary. Our method has been validated through experiments on three Chinese datasets, demonstrating its effectiveness. Additionally, we have undertaken comprehensive analyses of the method. The selection of a optimal subset for expansion has shown to enhance performance on both domain-specific tasks and general tasks, showcasing the potential of VEGAD."}
{"Title": "Strategic Demonstration Selection for Improved Fairness in LLM In-Context Learning", "Abstract": "Recent studies highlight the effectiveness of using in-context learning (ICL) to steer large language models (LLMs) in processing tabular data, a challenging task given the structured nature of such data. Despite advancements in performance, the fairness implications of these methods are less understood. This study investigates how varying demonstrations within ICL prompts influence the fairness outcomes of LLMs. Our findings reveal that deliberately including minority group samples in prompts significantly boosts fairness without sacrificing predictive accuracy. Further experiments demonstrate that the proportion of minority to majority samples in demonstrations affects the trade-off between fairness and prediction accuracy. Based on these insights, we introduce a mitigation technique that employs clustering and evolutionary strategies to curate a diverse and representative sample set from the training data. This approach aims to enhance both predictive performance and fairness in ICL applications. Experimental results validate that our proposed method dramatically improves fairness across various metrics, showing its efficacy in real-world scenarios."}
{"Title": "Multi-Dialect Vietnamese: Task, Dataset, Baseline Models and Challenges", "Abstract": "Vietnamese, a low-resource language, is typically categorized into three primary dialect groups that belong to Northern, Central, and Southern Vietnam. However, each province within these regions exhibits its own distinct pronunciation variations. Despite the existence of various speech recognition datasets, none of them has provided a fine-grained classification of the 63 dialects specific to individual provinces of Vietnam. To address this gap, we introduce Vietnamese Multi-Dialect (ViMD) dataset, a novel comprehensive dataset capturing the rich diversity of 63 provincial dialects spoken across Vietnam. Our dataset comprises 102.56 hours of audio, consisting of approximately 19,000 utterances, and the associated transcripts contain over 1.2 million words. To provide benchmarks and simultaneously demonstrate the challenges of our dataset, we fine-tune state-of-the-art pre-trained models for two downstream tasks: (1) Dialect identification and (2) Speech recognition. The empirical results suggest two implications including the influence of geographical factors on dialects, and the constraints of current approaches in speech recognition tasks involving multi-dialect speech data. Our dataset is available for research purposes."}
{"Title": "Is LLM-as-a-Judge Robust? Investigating Universal Adversarial Attacks on Zero-shot LLM Assessment", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) are powerful zero-shot assessors used in real-world situations such as assessing written exams and benchmarking systems. Despite these critical applications, no existing work has analyzed the vulnerability of judge-LLMs to adversarial manipulation. This work presents the first study on the adversarial robustness of assessment LLMs, where we demonstrate that short universal adversarial phrases can be concatenated to deceive judge LLMs to predict inflated scores. Since adversaries may not know or have access to the judge-LLMs, we propose a simple surrogate attack where a surrogate model is first attacked, and the learned attack phrase then transferred to unknown judge-LLMs. We propose a practical algorithm to determine the short universal attack phrases and demonstrate that when transferred to unseen models, scores can be drastically inflated such that irrespective of the assessed text, maximum scores are predicted. It is found that judge-LLMs are significantly more susceptible to these adversarial attacks when used for absolute scoring, as opposed to comparative assessment. Our findings raise concerns on the reliability of LLM-as-a-judge methods, and emphasize the importance of addressing vulnerabilities in LLM assessment methods before deployment in high-stakes real-world scenarios."}
{"Title": "Rethinking the Reversal Curse of LLMs: a Prescription from Human Knowledge Reversal", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have exhibited exceptional performance across diverse domains. However, recent studies reveal that LLMs are plagued by the {``}reversal curse{''}. Most existing methods rely on aggressive sample permutation and pay little attention to delving into the underlying reasons for this issue, resulting in only partial mitigation. In this paper, inspired by human knowledge reversal, we investigate and quantify the individual influence of three potential reasons on the reversal curse: 1) knowledge clarity, 2) entity correlation modeling, and 3) pairwise relationship reasoning capability. Motivated by the analysis of these reasons, we propose a novel **P**airwise entity **O**rder- and **R**elationship-**E**nhanced (**PORE**) data strategy, which facilitates bidirectional entity correlation modeling and pairwise relationship reasoning to overcome the reversal curse. Specifically, PORE augments the samples with entity order-reversal and semantically preserved question-answer pairs, enhancing the encoding of entity correlations in both directions. PORE also employs entity-interleaved pairwise relationship data, which elevates the model{'}s capability for relationship reasoning. Additionally, to improve the recall of reverse relationships, we leverage knowledge clarity to construct high-clarity data for PORE. Extensive experimental results on available and two newly assembled datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and generalization of our method in both data-sufficient and -constrained situations."}
{"Title": "More Than Catastrophic Forgetting: Integrating General Capabilities For Domain-Specific LLMs", "Abstract": "The performance on general tasks decreases after Large Language Models (LLMs) are fine-tuned on domain-specific tasks, the phenomenon is known as Catastrophic Forgetting (CF). However, this paper presents a further challenge for real application of domain-specific LLMs beyond CF, called General Capabilities Integration (GCI), which necessitates the integration of both the general capabilities and domain knowledge within a single instance. The objective of GCI is not merely to retain previously acquired general capabilities alongside new domain knowledge, but to harmonize and utilize both sets of skills in a cohesive manner to enhance performance on domain-specific tasks. Taking legal domain as an example, we carefully design three groups of training and testing tasks without lacking practicability, and construct the corresponding datasets. To better incorporate general capabilities across domain-specific scenarios, we introduce ALoRA, which utilizes a multi-head attention module upon LoRA, facilitating direct information transfer from preceding tokens to the current one. This enhancement permits the representation to dynamically switch between domain-specific knowledge and general competencies according to the attention. Extensive experiments are conducted on the proposed tasks. The results exhibit the significance of our setting, and the effectiveness of our method."}
{"Title": "Muting Whisper: A Universal Acoustic Adversarial Attack on Speech Foundation Models", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "GENRA: Enhancing Zero-shot Retrieval with Rank Aggregation", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have been shown to effectively perform zero-shot document retrieval, a process that typically consists of two steps: i) retrieving relevant documents, and ii) re-ranking them based on their relevance to the query. This paper presents GENRA, a new approach to zero-shot document retrieval that incorporates rank aggregation to improve retrieval effectiveness. Given a query, GENRA first utilizes LLMs to generate informative passages that capture the query{'}s intent. These passages are then employed to guide the retrieval process, selecting similar documents from the corpus. Next, we use LLMs again for a second refinement step. This step can be configured for either direct relevance assessment of each retrieved document or for re-ranking the retrieved documents. Ultimately, both approaches ensure that only the most relevant documents are kept. Upon this filtered set of documents, we perform multi-document retrieval, generating individual rankings for each document. As a final step, GENRA leverages rank aggregation, combining the individual rankings to produce a single refined ranking. Extensive experiments on benchmark datasets demonstrate that GENRA improves existing approaches, highlighting the effectiveness of the proposed methodology in zero-shot retrieval."}
{"Title": "XplainLLM: A Knowledge-Augmented Dataset for Reliable Grounded Explanations in LLMs", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable success in natural language tasks, yet understanding their reasoning processes remains a significant challenge. We address this by introducing XplainLLM, a dataset accompanying an explanation framework designed to enhance LLM transparency and reliability. Our dataset comprises 24,204 instances where each instance interprets the LLM{'}s reasoning behavior using knowledge graphs (KGs) and graph attention networks (GAT), and includes explanations of LLMs such as the decoder-only Llama-3 and the encoder-only RoBERTa. XplainLLM also features a framework for generating grounded explanations and the \\textit{debugger-scores} for multidimensional quality analysis. Our explanations include \\textit{why-choose} and \\textit{why-not-choose} components, \\textit{reason-elements}, and \\textit{debugger-scores} that collectively illuminate the LLM{'}s reasoning behavior. Our evaluations demonstrate XplainLLM{'}s potential to reduce hallucinations and improve grounded explanation generation in LLMs. XplainLLM is a resource for researchers and practitioners to build trust and verify the reliability of LLM outputs. Our code and dataset are publicly available."}
{"Title": "Divide and Conquer Radiology Report Generation via Observation Level Fine-grained Pretraining and Prompt Tuning", "Abstract": "The automation of radiology report generation (RRG) holds immense potential to alleviate radiologists{'} workloads and improve diagnostic accuracy. Despite advancements in image captioning and vision-language pretraining, RRG remains challenging due to the lengthy and complex nature of radiology reports. In this work, we proposes the Divide and Conquer Radiology Report Generation (DCRRG) model, which breaks down full-text radiology reports into concise observation descriptions. This approach enables the model to capture fine-grained representations from each observation through a two-stage process: an encoding stage focusing on observation prediction tasks to learn fine-grained representations, and a decoding stage for integrating these descriptions into cohesive and comprehensive radiology reports. Experimental results on two benchmark datasets demonstrate that DCRRG achieves significant improvements across all evaluated metrics, underscoring its capability to generate semantically coherent and clinically accurate radiology reports."}
{"Title": "SURf: Teaching Large Vision-Language Models to Selectively Utilize Retrieved Information", "Abstract": "Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) have become pivotal at the intersection of computer vision and natural language processing. However, the full potential of LVLMs{'} Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) capabilities remains underutilized. Existing works either focus solely on the text modality or are limited to specific tasks. Moreover, most LVLMs struggle to selectively utilize retrieved information and are sensitive to irrelevant or misleading references. To address these challenges, we propose a self-refinement framework designed to teach LVLMs to \\textbf{S}electively \\textbf{U}tilize \\textbf{R}etrieved In\\textbf{f}ormation (SURf). Specifically, when given questions that are incorrectly answered by the LVLM backbone, we obtain references that help correct the answers (positive references) and those that do not (negative references). We then fine-tune the LVLM backbone using a combination of these positive and negative references. Our experiments across three tasks and seven datasets demonstrate that our framework significantly enhances LVLMs{'} ability to effectively utilize retrieved multimodal references and improves their robustness against irrelevant or misleading information. The source code is available at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/SURf-6433."}
{"Title": "UNO Arena for Evaluating Sequential Decision-Making Capability of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Sequential decision-making refers to algorithms that take into account the dynamics of the environment, where early decisions affect subsequent decisions. With large language models (LLMs) demonstrating powerful capabilities between tasks, we can{'}t help but ask: Can Current LLMs Effectively Make Sequential Decisions? In order to answer this question, we propose the UNO Arena based on the card game UNO to evaluate the sequential decision-making capability of LLMs and explain in detail why we choose UNO. In UNO Arena, We evaluate the sequential decision-making capability of LLMs dynamically with novel metrics based Monte Carlo methods. We set up random players, DQN-based reinforcement learning players, and LLM players (e.g. GPT-4, Gemini-pro) for comparison testing. Furthermore, in order to improve the sequential decision-making capability of LLMs, we propose the TUTRI player, which can involves having LLMs reflect their own actions with the summary of game history and the game strategy. Numerous experiments demonstrate that the TUTRI player achieves a notable breakthrough in the performance of sequential decision-making compared to the vanilla LLM player."}
{"Title": "Middleware for LLMs: Tools Are Instrumental for Language Agents in Complex Environments", "Abstract": "The applications of large language models (LLMs) have expanded well beyond the confines of text processing, signaling a new era where LLMs are envisioned as generalist agents capable of operating within complex environments. These environments are often highly expansive, making it impossible for the LLM to process them within its short-term memory. Motivated by recent research on extending the capabilities of LLMs with tools, we seek to investigate the intriguing potential of tools to augment LLMs in handling such complexity by introducing a novel class of tools, termed *middleware*, to aid in the proactive exploration within these massive environments. Such specialized tools can serve as a middleware layer shielding the LLM from environmental complexity. In two representative complex environments{---}knowledge bases (KBs) and databases{---}we demonstrate the significant potential of augmenting language agents with tools in complex environments. Notably, equipped with the middleware, GPT-4 achieves **2.8**X the performance of the best baseline in tasks requiring access to database content and **2.2**X in KB tasks. Our findings illuminate the path for advancing language agents in real-world applications."}
{"Title": "MORPHEUS: Modeling Role from Personalized Dialogue History by Exploring and Utilizing Latent Space", "Abstract": "Personalized Dialogue Generation (PDG) aims to create coherent responses according to roles or personas. Traditional PDG relies on external role data, which can be scarce and raise privacy concerns. Approaches address these issues by extracting role information from dialogue history, which often fail to generically model roles in continuous space. To overcome these limitations, we introduce a novel framework Models Roles from Personalized Dialogue History by Exploring and Utilizing Latent Space (MORPHEUS) through a three-stage training process. Specifically, we create a persona codebook to represent roles in latent space compactly, and this codebook is used to construct a posterior distribution of role information. This method enables the model to generalize across roles, allowing the generation of personalized dialogues even for unseen roles. Experiments on both Chinese and English datasets demonstrate that MORPHEUS enhances the extraction of role information, and improves response generation without external role data. Additionally, MORPHEUS can be considered an efficient fine-tuning for large language models."}
{"Title": "KnowledgeSG: Privacy-Preserving Synthetic Text Generation with Knowledge Distillation from Server", "Abstract": "The success of large language models (LLMs) facilitate many parties to fine-tune LLMs on their own private data. However, this practice raises privacy concerns due to the memorization of LLMs. Existing solutions, such as utilizing synthetic data for substitution, struggle to simultaneously improve performance and preserve privacy.They either rely on a local model for generation, resulting in a performance decline, or take advantage of APIs, directly exposing the data to API servers. To address this issue, we propose \\textit{KnowledgeSG}, a novel client-server framework which enhances synthetic data quality and improves model performance while ensuring privacy. We achieve this by learning local knowledge from the private data with differential privacy (DP) and distilling professional knowledge from the server. Additionally, inspired by federated learning, we transmit models rather than data between the client and server to prevent privacy leakage.Extensive experiments in medical and financial domains demonstrate the effectiveness of *KnowledgeSG*. Our code is now publicly available at https://github.com/wwh0411/KnowledgeSG."}
{"Title": "DAMRO: Dive into the Attention Mechanism of LVLM to Reduce Object Hallucination", "Abstract": "Despite the great success of Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs), they inevitably suffer from hallucination. As we know, both the visual encoder and the Large Language Model (LLM) decoder in LVLMs are Transformer-based, allowing the model to extract visual information and generate text outputs via attention mechanisms. We find that the attention distribution of LLM decoder on image tokens is highly consistent with the visual encoder and both distributions tend to focus on particular background tokens rather than the referred objects in the image. We attribute to the unexpected attention distribution to an inherent flaw in the visual encoder itself, which misguides LLMs to over emphasize the redundant information and generate object hallucination. To address the issue, we propose DAMRO, a novel training-free strategy that **D**ive into **A**ttention **M**echanism of LVLM to **R**educe **O**bject Hallucination. Specifically, our approach employs classification token (CLS) of ViT to filter out high-attention tokens scattered in the background and then eliminate their influence during decoding stage. We evaluate our method on LVLMs including LLaVA-1.5, LLaVA-NeXT and InstructBLIP, using various benchmarks such as POPE, CHAIR, MME and GPT-4V Aided Evaluation. The results demonstrate that our approach significantly reduces the impact of these outlier tokens, thus effectively alleviating the hallucination of LVLMs."}
{"Title": "Unlocking the Future: Exploring Look-Ahead Planning Mechanistic Interpretability in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Planning, as the core module of agents, is crucial in various fields such as embodied agents, web navigation, and tool using. With the development of large language models (LLMs), some researchers treat large language models as intelligent agents to stimulate and evaluate their planning capabilities. However, the planning mechanism is still unclear. In this work, we focus on exploring the look-ahead planning mechanism in large language models from the perspectives of information flow and internal representations. First, we study how planning is done internally by analyzing the multi-layer perception (MLP) and multi-head self-attention (MHSA) components at the last token. We find that the output of MHSA in the middle layers at the last token can directly decode the decision to some extent. Based on this discovery, we further trace the source of MHSA by information flow, and we reveal that MHSA extracts information from spans of the goal states and recent steps. According to information flow, we continue to study what information is encoded within it. Specifically, we explore whether future decisions have been considered in advance in the representation of flow. We demonstrate that the middle and upper layers encode a few short-term future decisions. Overall, our research analyzes the look-ahead planning mechanisms of LLMs, facilitating future research on LLMs performing planning tasks."}
{"Title": "Breaking Language Barriers: Cross-Lingual Continual Pre-Training at Scale", "Abstract": "In recent years, Large Language Models (LLMs) have made significant strides towards Artificial General Intelligence. However, training these models from scratch requires substantial computational resources and vast amounts of text data. In this paper, we explores an alternative approach to constructing a LLM for a new language by continually pre-training (CPT) from existing pre-trained LLMs, instead of using randomly initialized parameters. Based on parallel experiments on 40 model sizes ranging from 40M to 5B parameters, we find that 1) CPT converges faster and saves significant resources in a scalable manner. 2) CPT adheres to an extended scaling law derived from with a joint data-parameter scaling term. 3) The compute-optimal data-parameter allocation for CPT markedly differs based on our estimated scaling factors. 4) The effectiveness of transfer scale is influenced by training duration and linguistic properties, while robust to data replaying, a method that effectively mitigates catastrophic forgetting in CPT. We hope our findings provide deeper insights into the transferability of LLMs at scale for the research community."}
{"Title": "An Empirical Study of Multilingual Reasoning Distillation for Question Answering", "Abstract": "Reasoning is one crucial capability in Large Language Models (LLMs), allowing them to perform complex tasks such as solving math problems and multi-step planning. While reasoning capability can emerge in larger models, smaller ones usually have to rely on distillation to transfer this capability from a larger model. However, recent efforts to distill reasoning capabilities have focused mainly on English, leaving multilingual distillation underexplored. To address this gap, this paper examines existing English reasoning distillation methods that utilize a variety of positive rationales in multilingual settings and proposes d-CoT-nR, a novel approach that incorporates incorrect rationales as additional guidance. Empirical results from multilingual high-school examinations show that d-CoT-nR significantly surpasses the baseline, improving accuracy in unseen languages and correctness in step-by-step reasoning."}
{"Title": "Can Large Language Models Faithfully Express Their Intrinsic Uncertainty in Words?", "Abstract": "We posit that large language models (LLMs) should be capable of expressing their intrinsic uncertainty in natural language. For example, if the LLM is equally likely to output two contradicting answers to the same question, then its generated response should reflect this uncertainty by hedging its answer (e.g., {``}I{'}m not sure, but I think...{''}). We formalize faithful response uncertainty based on the gap between the model{'}s intrinsic confidence in the assertions it makes and the decisiveness by which they are conveyed. This example-level metric reliably indicates whether the model reflects its uncertainty, as it penalizes both excessive and insufficient hedging. We evaluate a variety of aligned LLMs at faithfully conveying uncertainty on several knowledge-intensive question answering tasks. Our results provide strong evidence that modern LLMs are poor at faithfully conveying their uncertainty, and that better alignment is necessary to improve their trustworthiness."}
{"Title": "Does Fine-Tuning LLMs on New Knowledge Encourage Hallucinations?", "Abstract": "When large language models are aligned via supervised fine-tuning, they may encounter new factual information that was not acquired through pre-training. It is often conjectured that this can teach the model the behavior of hallucinating factually incorrect responses, as the model is trained to generate facts that are not grounded in its pre-existing knowledge. In this work, we study the impact of such exposure to new knowledge on the capability of the fine-tuned model to utilize its pre-existing knowledge. To this end, we design a controlled setup, focused on closed-book QA, where we vary the proportion of the fine-tuning examples that introduce new knowledge. We demonstrate that large language models struggle to acquire new factual knowledge through fine-tuning, as fine-tuning examples that introduce new knowledge are learned significantly slower than those consistent with the model{'}s knowledge. However, we also find that as the examples with new knowledge are eventually learned, they linearly increase the model{'}s tendency to hallucinate. Taken together, our results highlight the risk in introducing new factual knowledge through fine-tuning, and support the view that large language models mostly acquire factual knowledge through pre-training, whereas fine-tuning teaches them to use it more efficiently."}
{"Title": "Bridging Modalities: Enhancing Cross-Modality Hate Speech Detection with Few-Shot In-Context Learning", "Abstract": "The widespread presence of hate speech on the internet, including formats such as text-based tweets and multimodal memes, poses a significant challenge to digital platform safety. Recent research has developed detection models tailored to specific modalities; however, there is a notable gap in transferring detection capabilities across different formats. This study conducts extensive experiments using few-shot in-context learning with large language models to explore the transferability of hate speech detection between modalities. Our findings demonstrate that text-based hate speech examples can significantly enhance the classification accuracy of vision-language hate speech. Moreover, text-based demonstrations outperform vision-language demonstrations in few-shot learning settings. These results highlight the effectiveness of cross-modality knowledge transfer and offer valuable insights for improving hate speech detection systems."}
{"Title": "MIND: Multimodal Shopping Intention Distillation from Large Vision-language Models for E-commerce Purchase Understanding", "Abstract": "Improving user experience and providing personalized search results in E-commerce platforms heavily rely on understanding purchase intention. However, existing methods for acquiring large-scale intentions bank on distilling large language models with human annotation for verification. Such an approach tends to generate product-centric intentions, overlook valuable visual information from product images, and incurs high costs for scalability. To address these issues, we introduce MIND, a multimodal framework that allows Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) to infer purchase intentions from multimodal product metadata and prioritize human-centric ones. Using Amazon Review data, we apply MIND and create a multimodal intention knowledge base, which contains 1,264,441 intentions derived from 126,142 co-buy shopping records across 107,215 products. Extensive human evaluations demonstrate the high plausibility and typicality of our obtained intentions and validate the effectiveness of our distillation framework and filtering mechanism. Further experiments reveal the positive downstream benefits that MIND brings to intention comprehension tasks and highlight the importance of multimodal generation and role-aware filtering. Additionally, MIND shows robustness to different prompts and superior generation quality compared to previous methods."}
{"Title": "ECON: On the Detection and Resolution of Evidence Conflicts", "Abstract": "The rise of large language models (LLMs) has significantly influenced the quality of information in decision-making systems, leading to the prevalence of AI-generated content and challenges in detecting misinformation and managing conflicting information, or {``}inter-evidence conflicts.{''} This study introduces a method for generating diverse, validated evidence conflicts to simulate real-world misinformation scenarios. We evaluate conflict detection methods, including Natural Language Inference (NLI) models, factual consistency (FC) models, and LLMs, on these conflicts (RQ1) and analyze LLMs{'} conflict resolution behaviors (RQ2). Our key findings include: (1) NLI and LLM models exhibit high precision in detecting answer conflicts, though weaker models suffer from low recall; (2) FC models struggle with lexically similar answer conflicts, while NLI and LLM models handle these better; and (3) stronger models like GPT-4 show robust performance, especially with nuanced conflicts. For conflict resolution, LLMs often favor one piece of conflicting evidence without justification and rely on internal knowledge if they have prior beliefs."}
{"Title": "\u201cImage, Tell me your story!\u201d Predicting the original meta-context of visual misinformation", "Abstract": "To assist human fact-checkers, researchers have developed automated approaches for visual misinformation detection. These methods assign veracity scores by identifying inconsistencies between the image and its caption, or by detecting forgeries in the image. However, they neglect a crucial point of the human fact-checking process: identifying the original meta-context of the image. By explaining what is actually true about the image, fact-checkers can better detect misinformation, focus their efforts on check-worthy visual content, engage in counter-messaging before misinformation spreads widely, and make their explanation more convincing. Here, we fill this gap by introducing the task of automated image contextualization. We create 5Pils, a dataset of 1,676 fact-checked images with question-answer pairs about their original meta-context. Annotations are based on the 5 Pillars fact-checking framework. We implement a first baseline that grounds the image in its original meta-context using the content of the image and textual evidence retrieved from the open web. Our experiments show promising results while highlighting several open challenges in retrieval and reasoning."}
{"Title": "Improving Retrieval-augmented Text-to-SQL with AST-based Ranking and Schema Pruning", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Mixture-of-Subspaces in Low-Rank Adaptation", "Abstract": "In this paper, we introduce a subspace-inspired Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) method, which is computationally efficient, easy to implement, and readily applicable to large language, multimodal, and diffusion models. Initially, we equivalently decompose the weights of LoRA into two subspaces, and find that simply mixing them can enhance performance. To study such a phenomenon, we revisit it through a fine-grained subspace lens, showing that such modification is equivalent to employing a fixed mixer to fuse the subspaces. To be more flexible, we jointly learn the mixer with the original LoRA weights, and term the method as Mixture-of-Subspaces LoRA (MoSLoRA). MoSLoRA consistently outperforms LoRA on tasks in different modalities, including commonsense reasoning, visual instruction tuning, and subject-driven text-to-image generation, demonstrating its effectiveness and robustness."}
{"Title": "PARIKSHA: A Large-Scale Investigation of Human-LLM Evaluator Agreement on Multilingual and Multi-Cultural Data", "Abstract": "Evaluation of multilingual Large Language Models (LLMs) is challenging due to a variety of factors {--} the lack of benchmarks with sufficient linguistic diversity, contamination of popular benchmarks into LLM pre-training data and the lack of local, cultural nuances in translated benchmarks. In this work, we study human and LLM-based evaluation in a multilingual, multi-cultural setting. We evaluate 30 models across 10 Indic languages by conducting 90K human evaluations and 30K LLM-based evaluations and find that models such as GPT-4o and Llama-3 70B consistently perform best for most Indic languages. We build leaderboards for two evaluation settings - pairwise comparison and direct assessment and analyse the agreement between humans and LLMs. We find that humans and LLMs agree fairly well in the pairwise setting but the agreement drops for direct assessment evaluation especially for languages such as Bengali and Odia. We also check for various biases in human and LLM-based evaluation and find evidence of self-bias in the GPT-based evaluator. Our work presents a significant step towards scaling up multilingual evaluation of LLMs."}
{"Title": "LawBench: Benchmarking Legal Knowledge of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "We present LawBench, the first evaluation benchmark composed of 20 tasks aimed to assess the ability of Large Language Models (LLMs) to perform Chinese legal-related tasks. LawBench is meticulously crafted to enable precise assessment of LLMs{'} legal capabilities from three cognitive levels that correspond to the widely accepted Bloom{'}s cognitive taxonomy. Using LawBench, we present a comprehensive evaluation of 21 popular LLMs and the first comparative analysis of the empirical results in order to reveal their relative strengths and weaknesses. All data, model predictions and evaluation code are accessible from https://github.com/open-compass/LawBench."}
{"Title": "Efficient Performance Tracking: Leveraging Large Language Models for Automated Construction of Scientific Leaderboards", "Abstract": "Scientific leaderboards are standardized ranking systems that facilitate evaluating and comparing competitive methods. Typically, a leaderboard is defined by a task, dataset, and evaluation metric (TDM) triple, allowing objective performance assessment and fostering innovation through benchmarking. However, the exponential increase in publications has made it infeasible to construct and maintain these leaderboards manually. Automatic leaderboard construction has emerged as a solution to reduce manual labor. Existing datasets for this task are based on the community-contributed leaderboards without additional curation. Our analysis shows that a large portion of these leaderboards are incomplete, and some of them contain incorrect information. In this work, we present SciLead, a manually-curated Scientific Leaderboard dataset that overcomes the aforementioned problems. Building on this dataset, we propose three experimental settings that simulate real-world scenarios where TDM triples are fully defined, partially defined, or undefined during leaderboard construction. While previous research has only explored the first setting, the latter two are more representative of real-world applications. To address these diverse settings, we develop a comprehensive LLM-based framework for constructing leaderboards. Our experiments and analysis reveal that various LLMs often correctly identify TDM triples while struggling to extract result values from publications. We make our code and data publicly available."}
{"Title": "Efficient Vision-Language pre-training via domain-specific learning for human activities", "Abstract": "Current Vision-Language (VL) models owe their success to large-scale pre-training on web-collected data, which in turn requires high-capacity architectures and large compute resources for training. We posit that when the downstream tasks are known in advance, which is in practice common, the pretraining process can be aligned to the downstream domain, leading to more efficient and accurate models, while shortening the pretraining step. To this end, we introduce a domain-aligned pretraining strategy that, without additional data collection, improves the accuracy on a domain of interest, herein, that of human activities, while largely preserving the generalist knowledge. At the core of our approach stands a new LLM-based method that, provided with a simple set of concept seeds, produces a concept hierarchy with high coverage of the target domain.The concept hierarchy is used to filter a large-scale web-crawled dataset and, then, enhance the resulting instances with targeted synthetic labels. We study in depth how to train such approaches and their resulting behavior. We further show generalization to video-based data by introducing a fast adaptation approach for transitioning from a static (image) model to a dynamic one (i.e. with temporal modeling). On the domain of interest, our approach significantly outperforms models trained on up to $60\\times$ more samples and between $10-100\\times$ shorter training schedules for image retrieval, video retrieval and action recognition. Code will be released."}
{"Title": "Empowering Backbone Models for Visual Text Generation with Input Granularity Control and Glyph-Aware Training", "Abstract": "Diffusion-based text-to-image models have demonstrated impressive achievements in diversity and aesthetics but struggle to generate images with legible visual texts. Existing backbone models have limitations such as misspelling, failing to generate texts, and lack of support for Chinese texts, but their development shows promising potential. In this paper, we propose a series of methods, aiming to empower backbone models to generate visual texts in English and Chinese. We first conduct a preliminary study revealing that BPE tokenization and insufficient learning of cross-attention modules restrict the performance of the backbone models. Based on these observations, we make the following improvements: (1) We design a mixed granularity input strategy to provide more suitable text representations; (2) We propose to augment the conventional training objective with three glyph-aware training losses, which enhance the learning of cross-attention modules and encourage the model to focus on visual texts. Through experiments, we demonstrate that our methods can effectively empower backbone models to generate semantic relevant, aesthetically appealing, and accurate visual text images, while maintaining their fundamental image generation quality."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Character Understanding of Large Language Models via Character Profiling from Fictional Works", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive performance and spurred numerous AI applications, in which role-playing agents (RPAs) are particularly popular, especially for fictional characters. The prerequisite for these RPAs lies in the capability of LLMs to understand characters from fictional works. Previous efforts have evaluated this capability via basic classification tasks or characteristic imitation, failing to capture the nuanced character understanding with LLMs. In this paper, we propose evaluating LLMs{'} character understanding capability via the character profiling task, i.e., summarizing character profiles from corresponding materials, a widely adopted yet understudied practice for RPA development. Specifically, we construct the CROSS dataset from literature experts and assess the generated profiles by comparing them with ground truth references and evaluating their applicability in downstream tasks. Our experiments, which cover various summarization methods and LLMs, have yielded promising results. These results strongly validate the character understanding capability of LLMs. Resources are available at https://github.com/Joanna0123/character{\\_}profiling."}
{"Title": "Getting More from Less: Large Language Models are Good Spontaneous Multilingual Learners", "Abstract": "Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown impressive language capabilities, while most of them have very unbalanced performance across different languages. Multilingual alignment based on the translation parallel data is an effective method to enhance LLMs{'} multilingual capabilities. In this work, we first discover and comprehensively investigate the spontaneous multilingual alignment of LLMs. Firstly, we find that LLMs instruction-tuned on the question translation data (i.e. without annotated answers) are able to encourage the alignment between English and a wide range of languages, even including those unseen during instruction-tuning. Additionally, we utilize different settings and mechanistic interpretability methods to analyze the LLM{'}s performance in the multilingual scenario comprehensively. Our work suggests that LLMs have enormous potential for improving multilingual alignment efficiently with great language generalization and task generalization."}
{"Title": "AdaSwitch: Adaptive Switching between Small and Large Agents for Effective Cloud-Local Collaborative Learning", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have been remarkable. Users face a choice between using cloud-based LLMs for generation quality and deploying local-based LLMs for lower computational cost. The former option is typically costly and inefficient, while the latter usually fails to deliver satisfactory performance for reasoning steps requiring deliberate thought processes. In this work, we propose a novel LLM utilization paradigm that facilitates the collaborative operation of large cloud-based LLMs and smaller local-deployed LLMs. Our framework comprises two primary modules: the local agent instantiated with a relatively smaller LLM, handling less complex reasoning steps, and the cloud agent equipped with a larger LLM, managing more intricate reasoning steps. This collaborative processing is enabled through an adaptive mechanism where the local agent introspectively identifies errors and proactively seeks assistance from the cloud agent, thereby effectively integrating the strengths of both locally-deployed and cloud-based LLMs, resulting in significant enhancements in task completion performance and efficiency. We evaluate AdaSwitch across 7 benchmarks, ranging from mathematical reasoning and complex question answering, using various types of LLMs to instantiate the local and cloud agents. The empirical results show that AdaSwitch effectively improves the performance of the local agent, and sometimes achieves competitive results compared to the cloud agent while utilizing much less computational overhead."}
{"Title": "CoBa: Convergence Balancer for Multitask Finetuning of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Multi-task learning (MTL) benefits the fine-tuning of large language models (LLMs) by providing a single model with improved performance and generalization ability across tasks, presenting a resource-efficient alternative to developing separate models for each task. Yet, existing MTL strategies for LLMs often fall short by either being computationally intensive or failing to ensure simultaneous task convergence. This paper presents CoBa, a new MTL approach designed to effectively manage task convergence balance with minimal computational overhead. Utilizing Relative Convergence Scores (RCS), Absolute Convergence Scores (ACS), and a Divergence Factor (DF), CoBa dynamically adjusts task weights during the training process, ensuring that the validation loss of all tasks progress towards convergence at an even pace while mitigating the issue of individual task divergence. The results of our experiments involving three disparate datasets underscore that this approach not only fosters equilibrium in task improvement but enhances the LLMs{'} performance by up to 13{\\%} relative to the second-best baselines. Code is open-sourced at https://github.com/codefuse-ai/MFTCoder."}
{"Title": "mDPO: Conditional Preference Optimization for Multimodal Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Direct preference optimization (DPO) has shown to be an effective method for large language model (LLM) alignment. Recent works have attempted to apply DPO to multimodal scenarios but have found it challenging to achieve consistent improvement. Through a comparative experiment, we identify the unconditional preference problem in multimodal preference optimization, where the model overlooks the image condition. To address this problem, we propose mDPO, a multimodal DPO objective that prevents the over-prioritization of language-only preferences by also optimizing image preference. Moreover, we introduce a reward anchor that forces the reward to be positive for chosen responses, thereby avoiding the decrease in their likelihood{---}an intrinsic problem of relative preference optimization. Experiments on two multimodal LLMs of different sizes and three widely used benchmarks demonstrate that mDPO effectively addresses the unconditional preference problem in multimodal preference optimization and significantly improves model performance, particularly in reducing hallucination."}
{"Title": "Data Advisor: Dynamic Data Curation for Safety Alignment of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Data are crucial element in large language model (LLM) alignment. Recent studies have explored using LLMs for efficient data collection. However, LLM-generated data often suffers from quality issues, with underrepresented or absent aspects and low-quality datapoints. To address these problems, we propose Data Advisor, an enhanced LLM-based method for generating data that takes into account the characteristics of the desired dataset. Starting from a set of pre-defined principles in hand, Data Advisor monitors the status of the generated data, identifies weaknesses in the current dataset, and advises the next iteration of data generation accordingly. Data Advisor can be easily integrated into existing data generation methods to enhance data quality and coverage. Experiments on safety alignment of three representative LLMs (i.e., Mistral, Llama2, and Falcon) demonstrate the effectiveness of Data Advisor in enhancing model safety against various fine-grained safety issues without sacrificing model utility."}
{"Title": "Language-to-Code Translation with a Single Labeled Example", "Abstract": "Tools for translating natural language into code promise natural, open-ended interaction with databases, web APIs, and other software systems. However, this promise is complicated by the diversity and continual development of these systems, each with its own interface and distinct set of features. Building a new language-to-code translator, even starting with a large language model (LM), typically requires annotating a large set of natural language commands with their associated programs. In this paper, we describe ICIP (In-Context Inverse Programming), a method for bootstrapping a language-to-code system using mostly (or entirely) unlabeled programs written using a potentially unfamiliar (but human-readable) library or API. ICIP uses a pre-trained LM to assign candidate natural language descriptions to these programs, then iteratively refines the descriptions to ensure global consistency. Across nine different application domains from the Overnight and Spider benchmarks and text-davinci-003 and CodeLlama-7b-Instruct models, ICIP outperforms a number of prompting baselines. Indeed, in a {``}nearly unsupervised{''} setting with only a single annotated program and 100 unlabeled examples, it achieves up to 85{\\%} of the performance of a fully supervised system."}
{"Title": "Attribute or Abstain: Large Language Models as Long Document Assistants", "Abstract": "LLMs can help humans working with long documents, but are known to hallucinate. *Attribution* can increase trust in LLM responses: The LLM provides evidence that supports its response, which enhances verifiability. Existing approaches to attribution have only been evaluated in RAG settings, where the initial retrieval confounds LLM performance. This is crucially different from the long document setting, where retrieval is not needed, but could help. Thus, a long document specific evaluation of attribution is missing. To fill this gap, we present LAB, a benchmark of 6 diverse long document tasks with attribution, and experiments with different approaches to attribution on 5 LLMs of different sizes. We find that *citation*, i.e. response generation and evidence extraction in one step, performs best for large and fine-tuned models, while additional retrieval can help for small, prompted models. We investigate whether the {``}Lost in the Middle{''} phenomenon exists for attribution, but do not find this. We also find that evidence quality can predict response quality on datasets with simple responses, but not so for complex responses, as models struggle with providing evidence for complex claims. We release code and data for further investigation. [Link](https://github.com/UKPLab/arxiv2024-attribute-or-abstain)"}
{"Title": "FEDKIM: Adaptive Federated Knowledge Injection into Medical Foundation Models", "Abstract": "Foundation models have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in handling diverse modalities and tasks, outperforming conventional artificial intelligence (AI) approaches that are highly task-specific and modality-reliant. In the medical domain, however, the development of comprehensive foundation models is constrained by limited access to diverse modalities and stringent privacy regulations. To address these constraints, this study introduces a novel knowledge injection approach, FedKIM, designed to scale the medical foundation model within a federated learning framework. FedKIM leverages lightweight local models to extract healthcare knowledge from private data and integrates this knowledge into a centralized foundation model using a designed adaptive Multitask Multimodal Mixture Of Experts (M$^3$OE) module. This method not only preserves privacy but also enhances the model{'}s ability to handle complex medical tasks involving multiple modalities. Our extensive experiments across twelve tasks in seven modalities demonstrate the effectiveness of FedKIM in various settings, highlighting its potential to scale medical foundation models without direct access to sensitive data. Source codes are available at https://github.com/XiaochenWang-PSU/FedKIM."}
{"Title": "Retrieved In-Context Principles from Previous Mistakes", "Abstract": "In-context learning (ICL) has been instrumental in adapting large language models (LLMs) to downstream tasks using correct input-output examples. Recent advances have attempted to improve model performance through principles derived from mistakes, yet these approaches suffer from lack of customization and inadequate error coverage. To address these limitations, we propose Retrieved In-Context Principles (RICP), a novel teacher-student framework. In RICP, the teacher model analyzes mistakes from the student model to generate reasons and insights for preventing similar mistakes. These mistakes are clustered based on their underlying reasons for developing task-level principles, enhancing the error coverage of principles. During inference, the most relevant mistakes for each question are retrieved to create question-level principles, improving the customization of the provided guidance. RICP is orthogonal to existing prompting methods and does not require intervention from the teacher model during inference. Experimental results across seven reasoning benchmarks reveal that RICP effectively enhances performance when applied to various prompting strategies."}
{"Title": "EmoKnob: Enhance Voice Cloning with Fine-Grained Emotion Control", "Abstract": "While recent advances in Text-to-Speech (TTS) technology produce natural and expressive speech, they lack the option for users to select emotion and control intensity. We propose EmoKnob, a framework that allows fine-grained emotion control in speech synthesis with few-shot demonstrative samples of arbitrary emotion. Our framework leverages the expressive speaker representation space made possible by recent advances in foundation voice cloning models. Based on the few-shot capability of our emotion control framework, we propose two methods to apply emotion control on emotions described by open-ended text, enabling an intuitive interface for controlling a diverse array of nuanced emotions. To facilitate a more systematic emotional speech synthesis field, we introduce a set of evaluation metrics designed to rigorously assess the faithfulness and recognizability of emotion control frameworks. Through objective and subjective evaluations, we show that our emotion control framework effectively embeds emotions into speech and surpasses emotion expressiveness of commercial TTS services."}
{"Title": "VPTQ: Extreme Low-bit Vector Post-Training Quantization for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Scaling model size significantly challenges the deployment and inference of Large Language Models (LLMs). Due to the redundancy in LLM weights, recent research has focused on pushing weight-only quantization to extremely low-bit (even down to 2 bits). It reduces memory requirements, optimizes storage costs, and decreases memory bandwidth needs during inference. However, due to numerical representation limitations, traditional scalar-based weight quantization struggles to achieve such extreme low-bit.Recent research on Vector Quantization (VQ) for LLMs has demonstrated the potential for extremely low-bit model quantization by compressing vectors into indices using lookup tables. In this paper, we introduce **Vector Post-Training Quantization (VPTQ)** for extremely low-bit quantization of LLMs. We use Second-Order Optimization to formulate the LLM VQ problem and guide our quantization algorithm design by solving the optimization.We further refine the weights using Channel-Independent Second-Order Optimization for a granular VQ.In addition, by decomposing the optimization problem, we propose a brief and effective codebook initialization algorithm. We also extend VPTQ to support residual and outlier quantization, which enhances model accuracy and further compresses the model.Our experimental results show that VPTQ reduces model quantization perplexity by 0.01-0.34 on LLaMA-2, 0.38-0.68 on Mistral-7B, 4.41-7.34 on LLaMA-3 over SOTA at 2-bit, with an average accuracy improvement of 0.79-1.5{\\%} on LLaMA-2, 1{\\%} on Mistral-7B, 11-22{\\%} on LLaMA-3 on QA tasks on average. We only utilize 10.4-18.6{\\%} of the quantization algorithm execution time, resulting in a 1.6-$1.8\\times$ increase in inference throughput compared to SOTA."}
{"Title": "An L* Algorithm for Deterministic Weighted Regular Languages", "Abstract": "Extracting finite state automata (FSAs) fromblack-box models offers a powerful approachto gaining interpretable insights into complexmodel behaviors. To support this pursuit, wepresent a weighted variant of Angluin{'}s (1987)L* algorithm for learning FSAs. We stay faithful to the original formulation, devising a wayto exactly learn deterministic weighted FSAswhose weights support division. Furthermore,we formulate the learning process in a mannerthat highlights the connection with FSA minimization, showing how L* directly learns aminimal automaton for the target language."}
{"Title": "Towards Verifiable Text Generation with Evolving Memory and Self-Reflection", "Abstract": "Despite the remarkable ability of large language models (LLMs) in language comprehension and generation, they often suffer from producing factually incorrect information, also known as hallucination. A promising solution to this issue is verifiable text generation, which prompts LLMs to generate content with citations for accuracy verification. However, verifiable text generation is non-trivial due to the focus-shifting phenomenon, the intricate reasoning needed to align the claim with correct citations, and the dilemma between the precision and breadth of retrieved documents. In this paper, we present VTG, an innovative framework for Verifiable Text Generation with evolving memory and self-reflection. VTG introduces evolving long short-term memory to retain both valuable documents and recent documents. A two-tier verifier equipped with an evidence finder is proposed to rethink and reflect on the relationship between the claim and citations. Furthermore, active retrieval and diverse query generation are utilized to enhance both the precision and breadth of the retrieved documents. We conduct extensive experiments on five datasets across three knowledge-intensive tasks and the results reveal that VTG significantly outperforms baselines."}
{"Title": "Pelican: Correcting Hallucination in Vision-LLMs via Claim Decomposition and Program of Thought Verification", "Abstract": "Large Visual Language Models (LVLMs) struggle with hallucinations in visual instruction following task(s). These issues hinder their trustworthiness and real-world applicability. We propose Pelican {--} a novel framework designed to detect and mitigate hallucinations through claim verification. Pelican first decomposes the visual claim into a chain of sub-claims based on first-order predicates. These sub-claims consists of (predicate, question) pairs and can be conceptualized as nodes of a computational graph. We then use use Program-of-Thought prompting to generate Python code for answering these questions through flexible composition of external tools. Pelican improves over prior work by introducing (1) intermediate variables for precise grounding of object instances, and (2) shared computation for answering the sub-question to enable adaptive corrections and inconsistency identification. We finally use reasoning abilities of LLM to verify the correctness of the the claim by considering the consistency and confidence of the (question, answer) pairs from each sub-claim. Our experiments demonstrate consistent performance improvements over various baseline LVLMs and existing hallucination mitigation approaches across several benchmarks."}
{"Title": "Resampled Datasets Are Not Enough: Mitigating Societal Bias Beyond Single Attributes", "Abstract": "We tackle societal bias in image-text datasets by removing spurious correlations between protected groups and image attributes. Traditional methods only target labeled attributes, ignoring biases from unlabeled ones. Using text-guided inpainting models, our approach ensures protected group independence from all attributes and mitigates inpainting biases through data filtering. Evaluations on multi-label image classification and image captioning tasks show our method effectively reduces bias without compromising performance across various models. Specifically, we achieve an average societal bias reduction of 46.1{\\%} in leakage-based bias metrics for multi-label classification and 74.8{\\%} for image captioning."}
{"Title": "RealVul: Can We Detect Vulnerabilities in Web Applications with LLM?", "Abstract": "The latest advancements in large language models (LLMs) have sparked interest in their potential for software vulnerability detection. However, there is currently a lack of research specifically focused on vulnerabilities in the PHP language, and challenges in data sampling and processing persist, hindering the model{'}s ability to effectively capture the characteristics of specific vulnerabilities. In this paper, we present RealVul, the first LLM-based framework designed for PHP vulnerability detection, addressing these issues. By improving code sampling methods and employing normalization techniques, we can isolate potential vulnerability triggers while streamlining the code and eliminating unnecessary semantic information, enabling the model to better understand and learn from the generated vulnerability samples. We also address the issue of insufficient PHP vulnerability samples by improving data synthesis methods. To evaluate RealVul{'}s performance, we conduct an extensive analysis using five distinct code LLMs on vulnerability data from 180 PHP projects. The results demonstrate a significant improvement in both effectiveness and generalization compared to existing methods, effectively boosting the vulnerability detection capabilities of these models."}
{"Title": "Unsupervised End-to-End Task-Oriented Dialogue with LLMs: The Power of the Noisy Channel", "Abstract": "Training task-oriented dialogue systems typically requires turn-level annotations for interacting with their APIs: e.g. a dialogue state and the system actions taken at each step. These annotations can be costly to produce, error-prone, and require both domain and annotation expertise. With advances in LLMs, we hypothesize that unlabeled data and a schema definition are sufficient for building a working task-oriented dialogue system, completely unsupervised. We consider a novel unsupervised setting of only (1) a well-defined API schema (2) a set of unlabeled dialogues between a user and agent. We propose an innovative approach using expectation-maximization (EM) that infers turn-level annotations as latent variables using a noisy channel model to build an end-to-end dialogue agent. Evaluating our approach on the MultiWOZ benchmark, our method more than doubles the dialogue success rate of a strong GPT-3.5 baseline."}
{"Title": "Humans or LLMs as the Judge? A Study on Judgement Bias", "Abstract": "Adopting human and large language models (LLM) as judges (*a.k.a* human- and LLM-as-a-judge) for evaluating the performance of LLMs has recently gained attention. Nonetheless, this approach concurrently introduces potential biases from human and LLMs, questioning the reliability of the evaluation results. In this paper, we propose a novel framework that is free from referencing groundtruth annotations for investigating **Misinformation Oversight Bias**, **Gender Bias**, **Authority Bias** and **Beauty Bias** on LLM and human judges. We curate a dataset referring to the revised Bloom{'}s Taxonomy and conduct thousands of evaluations. Results show that human and LLM judges are vulnerable to perturbations to various degrees, and that even the cutting-edge judges possess considerable biases. We further exploit these biases to conduct attacks on LLM judges. We hope that our work can notify the community of the bias and vulnerability of human- and LLM-as-a-judge, as well as the urgency of developing robust evaluation systems."}
{"Title": "WPO: Enhancing RLHF with Weighted Preference Optimization", "Abstract": "Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) is a promising solution to align large language models (LLMs) more closely with human values. Off-policy preference optimization, where the preference data is obtained from other models, is widely adopted due to its cost efficiency and scalability. However, off-policy preference optimization often suffers from a distributional gap between the policy used for data collection and the target policy, leading to suboptimal optimization. In this paper, we propose a novel strategy to mitigate this problem by simulating on-policy learning with off-policy preference data. Our Weighted Preference Optimization (WPO) method adapts off-policy data to resemble on-policy data more closely by reweighting preference pairs according to their probability under the current policy. This method not only addresses the distributional gap problem but also enhances the optimization process without incurring additional costs. We validate our method on instruction following benchmarks including Alpaca Eval 2 and MT-bench. WPO not only outperforms Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) by up to 5.6{\\%} on Alpaca Eval 2 but also establishes a remarkable length-controlled winning rate against GPT-4-turbo of 76.7{\\%} based on Gemma-2-9b-it. We release the code and models at https://github.com/wzhouad/WPO."}
{"Title": "Walking in Others' Shoes: How Perspective-Taking Guides Large Language Models in Reducing Toxicity and Bias", "Abstract": "The common toxicity and societal bias in contents generated by large language models (LLMs) necessitate strategies to reduce harm. Present solutions often demand white-box access to the model or substantial training, which is impractical for cutting-edge commercial LLMs. Moreover, prevailing prompting methods depend on external tool feedback and fail to simultaneously lessen toxicity and bias. Motivated by social psychology principles, we propose a novel strategy named perspective-taking prompting (PeT) that inspires LLMs to integrate diverse human perspectives and self-regulate their responses. This self-correction mechanism can significantly diminish toxicity (up to 89{\\%}) and bias (up to 73{\\%}) in LLMs{'} responses. Rigorous evaluations and ablation studies are conducted on two commercial LLMs (ChatGPT and GLM) and three open-source LLMs, revealing PeT{'}s superiority in producing less harmful responses, outperforming five strong baselines."}
{"Title": "MetaReflection: Learning Instructions for Language Agents using Past Reflections", "Abstract": "The popularity of Large Language Models (LLMs) have unleashed a new age of Language Agents for solving a diverse range of tasks. While contemporary frontier LLMs are capable enough to power reasonably good Language agents, the closed-API model makes it hard to improve in cases they perform sub-optimally. To address this, recent works have explored techniques to improve their performance using self reflection and prompt optimization techniques. While techniques like self reflection work well in an online setup, contemporary prompt optimization techniques are designed to work on simpler tasks. To address this, we introduce METAREFLECTION, a novel offline reinforcement learning technique that enhances the performance of Language Agents by augmenting a semantic memory based on experiential learnings from past trials. We demonstrate the efficacy of METAREFLECTION by evaluating across multiple domains, including complex logical reasoning, biomedical semantic similarity, open world question answering, and vulnerability threat detection, in Infrastructure-as-Code, with different agent design. METAREFLECTION boosts Language agents{'} performance by 4 {\\%} to 16.82 {\\%} over the raw GPT-4 baseline and performs on par with existing state-of-the-art prompt optimization techniques while requiring fewer LLM calls."}
{"Title": "Stepwise Verification and Remediation of Student Reasoning Errors with Large Language Model Tutors", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) offer many opportunities to scale high-quality personalized tutoring. A promising approach is to build dialog tutoring models to scaffold students{'} problem-solving. However, even though existing models perform well in solving reasoning questions, they can struggle to precisely detect student{'}s errors and tailor their feedback to these errors. Inspired by real-world teaching practice where teachers identify student errors and customize their response based on them, we focus on verifying student solutions and show how grounding to such verification improves the overall quality of tutor response generation. We collect a dataset of 1,002 stepwise math reasoning chains with the first error step annotated by teachers. We show empirically that finding the mistake in a student solution is challenging for current models. We propose and evaluate several verifiers for detecting these errors. Using both automatic and human evaluation we show that the student solution verifiers steer the generation model towards highly targeted responses to student error which are more often correct with less hallucinations compared to existing baselines. The benchmark dataset and code will be released openly."}
{"Title": "On Eliciting Syntax from Language Models via Hashing", "Abstract": "Unsupervised parsing, also known as grammar induction, aims to infer syntactic structure from raw text. Recently, binary representation has exhibited remarkable information-preserving capabilities at both lexicon and syntax levels. In this paper, we explore the possibility of leveraging this capability to deduce parsing trees from raw text, relying solely on the implicitly induced grammars within models. To achieve this, we upgrade the bit-level CKY from zero-order to first-order to encode the lexicon and syntax in a unified binary representation space, switch training from supervised to unsupervised under the contrastive hashing framework, and introduce a novel loss function to impose stronger yet balanced alignment signals. Our model shows competitive performance on various datasets, therefore, we claim that our method is effective and efficient enough to acquire high-quality parsing trees from pre-trained language models at a low cost."}
{"Title": "CliMedBench: A Large-Scale Chinese Benchmark for Evaluating Medical Large Language Models in Clinical Scenarios", "Abstract": "With the proliferation of Large Language Models (LLMs) in diverse domains, there is a particular need for unified evaluation standards in clinical medical scenarios, where models need to be examined very thoroughly. We present CliMedBench, a comprehensive benchmark with 14 expert-guided core clinical scenarios specifically designed to assess the medical ability of LLMs across 7 pivot dimensions. It comprises 33,735 questions derived from real-world medical reports of top-tier tertiary hospitals and authentic examination exercises. The reliability of this benchmark has been confirmed in several ways. Subsequent experiments with existing LLMs have led to the following findings: (i) Chinese medical LLMs underperform on this benchmark, especially where medical reasoning and factual consistency are vital, underscoring the need for advances in clinical knowledge and diagnostic accuracy. (ii) Several general-domain LLMs demonstrate substantial potential in medical clinics, while the limited input capacity of many medical LLMs hinders their practical use. These findings reveal both the strengths and limitations of LLMs in clinical scenarios and offer critical insights for medical research."}
{"Title": "The Best Defense is Attack: Repairing Semantics in Textual Adversarial Examples", "Abstract": "Recent studies have revealed the vulnerability of pre-trained language models to adversarial attacks. Adversarial defense techniques have been proposed to reconstruct adversarial examples within feature or text spaces. However, these methods struggle to effectively repair the semantics in adversarial examples, resulting in unsatisfactory defense performance. To repair the semantics in adversarial examples, we introduce a novel approach named Reactive Perturbation Defocusing (Rapid), which employs an adversarial detector to identify the fake labels of adversarial examples and leverages adversarial attackers to repair the semantics in adversarial examples. Our extensive experimental results, conducted on four public datasets, demonstrate the consistent effectiveness of Rapid in various adversarial attack scenarios. For easy evaluation, we provide a click-to-run demo of Rapid at https://tinyurl.com/22ercuf8."}
{"Title": "CSSL: Contrastive Self-Supervised Learning for Dependency Parsing on Relatively Free Word Ordered and Morphologically Rich Low Resource Languages", "Abstract": "Neural dependency parsing has achieved remarkable performance for low resource morphologically rich languages. It has also been well-studied that morphologically rich languages exhibit relatively free word order. This prompts a fundamental investigation: Is there a way to enhance dependency parsing performance, making the model robust to word order variations utilizing the relatively free word order nature of morphologically rich languages? In this work, we examine the robustness of graph-based parsing architectures on 7 relatively free word order languages. We focus on scrutinizing essential modifications such as data augmentation and the removal of position encoding required to adapt these architectures accordingly. To this end, we propose a contrastive self-supervised learning method to make the model robust to word order variations. Furthermore, our proposed modification demonstrates a substantial average gain of 3.03/2.95 points in 7 relatively free word order languages, as measured by the UAS/LAS Score metric when compared to the best performing baseline."}
{"Title": "Perceptions of Linguistic Uncertainty by Language Models and Humans", "Abstract": "*Uncertainty expressions* such as {`}probably{'} or {`}highly unlikely{'} are pervasive in human language. While prior work has established that there is population-level agreement in terms of how humans quantitatively interpret these expressions, there has been little inquiry into the abilities of language models in the same context. In this paper, we investigate how language models map linguistic expressions of uncertainty to numerical responses. Our approach assesses whether language models can employ theory of mind in this setting: understanding the uncertainty of another agent about a particular statement, independently of the model{'}s own certainty about that statement. We find that 7 out of 10 models are able to map uncertainty expressions to probabilistic responses in a human-like manner. However, we observe systematically different behavior depending on whether a statement is actually true or false. This sensitivity indicates that language models are substantially more susceptible to bias based on their prior knowledge (as compared to humans). These findings raise important questions and have broad implications for human-AI and AI-AI communication."}
{"Title": "Explaining and Improving Contrastive Decoding by Extrapolating the Probabilities of a Huge and Hypothetical LM", "Abstract": "Contrastive decoding (CD) (Li et al., 2022) improves the next-token distribution of a large expert language model (LM) using a small amateur LM. Although CD is applied to various LMs and domains to enhance open-ended text generation, it is still unclear why CD often works well, when it could fail, and how we can make it better. To deepen our understanding of CD, we first theoretically prove that CD could be viewed as linearly extrapolating the next-token logits from a huge and hypothetical LM. We also highlight that the linear extrapolation could make CD unable to output the most obvious answers that have already been assigned high probabilities by the amateur LM.To overcome CD{'}s limitation, we propose a new unsupervised decoding method called Asymptotic Probability Decoding (APD). APD explicitly extrapolates the probability curves from the LMs of different sizes to infer the asymptotic probabilities from an infinitely large LM without inducing more inference costs than CD. In FactualityPrompts, an open-ended text generation benchmark, sampling using APD significantly boosts factuality in comparison to the CD sampling and its variants, and achieves state-of-the-art results for Pythia 6.9B and OPT 6.7B. Furthermore, in five commonsense QA datasets, APD is often significantly better than CD and achieves a similar effect of using a larger LLM. For example, the perplexity of APD on top of Pythia 6.9B is even lower than the perplexity of Pythia 12B in CommonsenseQA and LAMBADA."}
{"Title": "Zero-shot Cross-domain Dialogue State Tracking via Context-aware Auto-prompting and Instruction-following Contrastive Decoding", "Abstract": "Zero-shot cross-domain dialogue state tracking (DST) enables us to manage task-oriented dialogues in new, unseen domains without the cost of collecting in-domain data. Previous studies have implemented slot-based input improvements, such as schema-driven descriptions and question-answering formats, but still suffer from negative transfer for seen slots and inefficient transfer for unseen slots due to the significant source-target domain gap. To address these issues, we introduce a novel framework called Context-aware Auto-prompting and Instruction-following Contrastive Decoding (CAPID). This framework generates dynamic, context-aware slot queries, effectively improving the model{'}s transferability. Our context-aware auto-prompting approach tailors slot queries to the current dialogue context, increasing flexibility and reducing ambiguities. Additionally, an instruction-following contrastive decoding strategy helps reduce errors related to off-topic slots by penalizing deviations from the provided instructions. Extensive experiments on two datasets, with varying model sizes (from 60M to 7B), demonstrate the superior performance of CAPID. The source code is provided for reproducibility."}
{"Title": "Knowledge Conflicts for LLMs: A Survey", "Abstract": "This survey provides an in-depth analysis of knowledge conflicts for large language models (LLMs), highlighting the complex challenges they encounter when blending contextual and parametric knowledge. Our focus is on three categories of knowledge conflicts: context-memory, inter-context, and intra-memory conflict. These conflicts can significantly impact the trustworthiness and performance of LLMs, especially in real-world applications where noise and misinformation are common. By categorizing these conflicts, exploring the causes, examining the behaviors of LLMs under such conflicts, and reviewing available solutions, this survey aims to shed light on strategies for improving the robustness of LLMs, thereby serving as a valuable resource for advancing research in this evolving area."}
{"Title": "MisinfoEval: Generative AI in the Era of \u201cAlternative Facts\u201d", "Abstract": "The spread of misinformation on social media platforms threatens democratic processes, contributes to massive economic losses, and endangers public health. Many efforts to address misinformation focus on a knowledge deficit model and propose interventions for improving users{'} critical thinking through access to facts. Such efforts are often hampered by challenges with scalability, and by platform users{'} personal biases. The emergence of generative AI presents promising opportunities for countering misinformation at scale across ideological barriers. In this paper, we introduce a framework (MisinfoEval) for generating and comprehensively evaluating large language model (LLM) based misinformation interventions. We present (1) an experiment with a simulated social media environment to measure effectiveness of misinformation interventions, and (2) a second experiment with personalized explanations tailored to the demographics and beliefs of users with the goal of countering misinformation by appealing to their pre-existing values. Our findings confirm that LLM-based interventions are highly effective at correcting user behavior (improving overall user accuracy at reliability labeling by up to 41.72{\\%}). Furthermore, we find that users favor more personalized interventions when making decisions about news reliability and users shown personalized interventions have significantly higher accuracy at identifying misinformation."}
{"Title": "MEANT: Multimodal Encoder for Antecedent Information", "Abstract": "The stock market provides a rich well of information that can be split across modalities, making it an ideal candidate for multimodal evaluation. Multimodal data plays an increasingly important role in the development of machine learning and has shown to positively impact performance. But information can do more than exist across modes{---} it can exist across time. How should we attend to temporal data that consists of multiple information types? This work introduces (i) the MEANT model, a Multimodal Encoder for Antecedent information and (ii) a new dataset called TempStock, which consists of price, Tweets, and graphical data with over a million Tweets from all of the companies in the S{\\&}P 500 Index. We find that MEANT improves performance on existing baselines by over 15{\\%}, and that the textual information affects performance far more than the visual information on our time-dependent task from our ablation study. The code and dataset will be made available upon publication."}
{"Title": "A Thorough Examination of Decoding Methods in the Era of LLMs", "Abstract": "Decoding methods play an indispensable role in converting language models from next-token predictors into practical task solvers. Prior research on decoding methods, primarily focusing on task-specific models, may not extend to the current era of general-purpose large language models (LLMs). Moreover, the recent influx of decoding strategies has further complicated this landscape. This paper provides a comprehensive and multifaceted analysis of various decoding methods within the context of LLMs, evaluating their performance, robustness to hyperparameter changes, and decoding speeds across a wide range of tasks, models, and deployment environments. Our findings reveal that decoding method performance is notably task-dependent and influenced by factors such as alignment, model size, and quantization. Intriguingly, sensitivity analysis exposes that certain methods achieve superior performance at the cost of extensive hyperparameter tuning, highlighting the trade-off between attaining optimal results and the practicality of implementation in varying contexts."}
{"Title": "AGRaME: Any-Granularity Ranking with Multi-Vector Embeddings", "Abstract": "Ranking is a fundamental problem in search, however, existing ranking algorithms usually restrict the granularity of ranking to full passages or require a specific dense index for each desired level of granularity. Such lack of flexibility in granularity negatively affects many applications that can benefit from more granular ranking, such as sentence-level ranking for open-domain QA, or proposition-level ranking for attribution. In this work, we introduce the idea of any-granularity ranking which leverages multi-vector embeddings to rank at varying levels of granularity while maintaining encoding at a single (coarser) level of granularity. We propose a multi-granular contrastive loss for training multi-vector approaches and validate its utility with both sentences and propositions as ranking units. Finally, we demonstrate the application of proposition-level ranking to post-hoc citation addition in retrieval-augmented generation, surpassing the performance of prompt-driven citation generation."}
{"Title": "FIRST: Faster Improved Listwise Reranking with Single Token Decoding", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have significantly advanced the field of information retrieval, particularly for reranking. Listwise LLM rerankers have showcased superior performance and generalizability compared to existing supervised approaches. However, conventional listwise LLM reranking methods lack efficiency as they provide ranking output in the form of a generated ordered sequence of candidate passage identifiers. Further, they are trained with the typical language modeling objective, which treats all ranking errors uniformly{--}potentially at the cost of misranking highly relevant passages. Addressing these limitations, we introduce FIRST, a novel listwise LLM reranking approach leveraging the output logits of the first generated identifier to directly obtain a ranked ordering of the candidates. Further, we incorporate a learning-to-rank loss during training, prioritizing ranking accuracy for the more relevant passages. Empirical results demonstrate that FIRST accelerates inference by 50{\\%} while maintaining a robust ranking performance with gains across the BEIR benchmark. Finally, to illustrate the practical effectiveness of listwise LLM rerankers, we investigate their application in providing relevance feedback for retrievers during inference. Our results show that LLM rerankers can provide a stronger distillation signal compared to cross-encoders, yielding substantial improvements in retriever recall after relevance feedback."}
{"Title": "Exploring Nested Named Entity Recognition with Large Language Models: Methods, Challenges, and Insights", "Abstract": "Nested Named Entity Recognition (NER) poses a significant challenge in Natural Language Processing (NLP), demanding sophisticated techniques to identify entities within entities. This research investigates the application of Large Language Models (LLMs) to nested NER, exploring methodologies from prior work and introducing specific reasoning techniques and instructions to improve LLM efficacy. Through experiments conducted on the ACE 2004, ACE 2005, and GENIA datasets, we evaluate the impact of these approaches on nested NER performance. Results indicate that output format critically influences nested NER performance, methodologies from previous works are less effective, and our nested NER-tailored instructions significantly enhance performance. Additionally, we find that label information and descriptions of nested cases are crucial in eliciting the capabilities of LLMs for nested NER, especially in specific domains (i.e., the GENIA dataset). However, these methods still do not outperform BERT-based models, highlighting the ongoing need for innovative approaches in nested NER with LLMs."}
{"Title": "ReCaLL: Membership Inference via Relative Conditional Log-Likelihoods", "Abstract": "The rapid scaling of large language models (LLMs) has raised concerns about the transparency and fair use of the data used in their pretraining. Detecting such content is challenging due to the scale of the data and limited exposure of each instance during training. We propose ReCaLL (Relative Conditional Log-Likelihood), a novel membership inference attack (MIA) to detect LLMs{'} pretraining data by leveraging their conditional language modeling capabilities. ReCaLL examines the relative change in conditional log-likelihoods when prefixing target data points with non-member context. Our empirical findings show that conditioning member data on non-member prefixes induces a larger decrease in log-likelihood compared to non-member data. We conduct comprehensive experiments and show that ReCaLL achieves state-of-the-art performance on the WikiMIA dataset, even with random and synthetic prefixes, and can be further improved using an ensemble approach. Moreover, we conduct an in-depth analysis of LLMs{'} behavior with different membership contexts, providing insights into how LLMs leverage membership information for effective inference at both the sequence and token level."}
{"Title": "\u201cFlex Tape Can't Fix That\u201d: Bias and Misinformation in Edited Language Models", "Abstract": "Weight-based model editing methods update the parametric knowledge of language models post-training. However, these methods can unintentionally alter unrelated parametric knowledge representations, potentially increasing the risk of harm. In this work, we investigate how weight editing methods unexpectedly amplify model biases after edits. We introduce a novel benchmark dataset, Seesaw-CF, for measuring bias amplification of model editing methods for demographic traits such as race, geographic origin, and gender. We use Seesaw-CF to examine the impact of model editing on bias in five large language models. Our results demonstrate that edited models exhibit, to various degrees, more biased behavior for certain demographic groups than before they were edited, specifically becoming less confident in properties for Asian and African subjects. Additionally, editing facts about place of birth, country of citizenship, or gender has particularly negative effects on the model{'}s knowledge about unrelated properties, such as field of work, a pattern observed across multiple models."}
{"Title": "Revisiting Who's Harry Potter: Towards Targeted Unlearning from a Causal Intervention Perspective", "Abstract": "This paper investigates Who{'}s Harry Potter (WHP), a pioneering yet insufficiently understood method for LLM unlearning. We explore it in two steps. First, we introduce a new task of LLM targeted unlearning, where given an unlearning target (e.g., a person) and some unlearning documents, we aim to unlearn only the information about the target, rather than everything in the unlearning documents. We further argue that a successful unlearning should satisfy criteria such as not outputting gibberish, not fabricating facts about the unlearning target, and not releasing factual information under jailbreak attacks. Second, we construct a causal intervention framework for targeted unlearning, where the knowledge of the unlearning target is modeled as a confounder between LLM input and output, and the unlearning process as a deconfounding process. This framework justifies and extends WHP, deriving a simple unlearning algorithm that includes WHP as a special case. Experiments on existing and new datasets show that our approach, without explicitly optimizing for the aforementioned criteria, achieves competitive performance in all of them."}
{"Title": "LIONs: An Empirically Optimized Approach to Align Language Models", "Abstract": "Alignment is a crucial step to enhance the instruction-following and conversational abilities of language models. Despite many recent works proposing new algorithms, datasets, and training pipelines, there is a lack of comprehensive studies measuring the impact of various design choices throughout the whole training process. We first conduct a rigorous analysis over a three-stage training pipeline consisting of supervised fine-tuning, offline preference learning, and online preference learning. We have found that using techniques like sequence packing, loss masking in SFT, increasing the preference dataset size in DPO, and online DPO training can significantly improve the performance of language models. We then train from Gemma-2b-base and LLama-3-8b-base, and find that our best models exceed the performance of the official instruct models tuned with closed-source data and algorithms. Our code and models can be found at https://github.com/Columbia-NLP-Lab/LionAlignment."}
{"Title": "Jellyfish: Instruction-Tuning Local Large Language Models for Data Preprocessing", "Abstract": "This paper explores the utilization of LLMs for data preprocessing (DP), a crucial step in the data mining pipeline that transforms raw data into a clean format. We instruction-tune local LLMs as universal DP task solvers that operate on a local, single, and low-priced GPU, ensuring data security and enabling further customization. We select a collection of datasets across four representative DP tasks and construct instruction data using data configuration, knowledge injection, and reasoning data distillation techniques tailored to DP. By tuning Mistral-7B, Llama 3-8B, and OpenOrca-Platypus2-13B, our models, Jellyfish-7B/8B/13B, deliver competitiveness compared to GPT-3.5/4 models and strong generalizability to unseen tasks while barely compromising the base models{'} abilities in NLP tasks. Meanwhile, Jellyfish offers enhanced reasoning capabilities compared to GPT-3.5. Our models are available at: https://huggingface.co/NECOUDBFM/JellyfishOur instruction dataset is available at: https://huggingface.co/datasets/NECOUDBFM/Jellyfish-Instruct"}
{"Title": "A Comprehensive Survey of Scientific Large Language Models and Their Applications in Scientific Discovery", "Abstract": "In many scientific fields, large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized the way text and other modalities of data (e.g., molecules and proteins) are handled, achieving superior performance in various applications and augmenting the scientific discovery process. Nevertheless, previous surveys on scientific LLMs often concentrate on one or two fields or a single modality. In this paper, we aim to provide a more holistic view of the research landscape by unveiling cross-field and cross-modal connections between scientific LLMs regarding their architectures and pre-training techniques. To this end, we comprehensively survey over 260 scientific LLMs, discuss their commonalities and differences, as well as summarize pre-training datasets and evaluation tasks for each field and modality. Moreover, we investigate how LLMs have been deployed to benefit scientific discovery. Resources related to this survey are available at https://github.com/yuzhimanhua/Awesome-Scientific-Language-Models."}
{"Title": "MiniCheck: Efficient Fact-Checking of LLMs on Grounding Documents", "Abstract": "Recognizing if LLM output can be grounded in evidence is central to many tasks in NLP: retrieval-augmented generation, summarization, document-grounded dialogue, and more. Current approaches to this kind of fact-checking are based on verifying each piece of a model generation against potential evidence using an LLM. However, this process can be very computationally expensive, requiring many calls to a model to check a single response. In this work, we show how to build small fact-checking models that have GPT-4-level performance but for 400x lower cost. We do this by constructing synthetic training data with GPT-4, which involves creating realistic yet challenging instances of factual errors via a structured generation procedure. Training on this data teaches models to check each fact in the claim and recognize synthesis of information across sentences. For evaluation, we unify datasets from recent work on fact-checking and grounding LLM generations into a new benchmark, LLM-AggreFact. Our best system MiniCheck-FT5 (770M parameters) outperforms all systems of comparable size and reaches GPT-4 accuracy. We release LLM-AggreFact, code for data synthesis, and models."}
{"Title": "Beyond Label Attention: Transparency in Language Models for Automated Medical Coding via Dictionary Learning", "Abstract": "Medical coding, the translation of unstructured clinical text into standardized medical codes, is a crucial but time-consuming healthcare practice. Though large language models (LLM) could automate the coding process and improve the efficiency of such tasks, interpretability remains paramount for maintaining patient trust. Current efforts in interpretability of medical coding applications rely heavily on label attention mechanisms, which often leads to the highlighting of extraneous tokens irrelevant to the ICD code. To facilitate accurate interpretability in medical language models, this paper leverages dictionary learning that can efficiently extract sparsely activated representations from dense language model embeddings in superposition. Compared with common label attention mechanisms, our model goes beyond token-level representations by building an interpretable dictionary which enhances the mechanistic-based explanations for each ICD code prediction, even when the highlighted tokens are medically irrelevant. We show that dictionary features are human interpretable, can elucidate the hidden meanings of upwards of 90{\\%} of medically irrelevant tokens, and steer model behavior."}
{"Title": "MOSEL: Inference Serving Using Dynamic Modality Selection", "Abstract": "Rapid advancements over the years have helped machine learning models reach previously hard-to-achieve goals, sometimes even exceeding human capabilities. However, achieving desired accuracy comes at the cost of larger model sizes and increased computational demands. Thus, serving predictions from these models to meet any latency and cost requirements of applications remains a key challenge, despite recent work in building inference serving systems as well as algorithmic approaches that dynamically adapt models based on inputs. Our paper introduces a new form of dynamism, modality selection, where we adaptively choose modalities from inference inputs while maintaining the model quality. We introduce MOSEL, an automated inference serving system for multi-modal ML models that carefully picks input modalities per request based on user-defined performance and accuracy requirements. MOSEL exploits modality configurations extensively, improving system throughput by 3.6 $\\times$ with an accuracy guarantee. It also reduces job completion times by 11$\\times$ compared to modality-agnostic approaches."}
{"Title": "From RAG to Riches: Retrieval Interlaced with Sequence Generation", "Abstract": "We present RICHES, a novel approach that interleaves retrieval with sequence generation tasks. RICHES offers an alternative to conventional RAG systems by eliminating the need for separate retriever and generator. It retrieves documents by directly decoding their contents, constrained on the corpus. Unifying retrieval with generation allows us to adapt to diverse new tasks via prompting alone. RICHES can work with any Instruction-tuned model, without additional training. It provides attributed evidence, supports multi-hop retrievals and interleaves thoughts to plan on what to retrieve next, all within a single decoding pass of the LLM. We demonstrate the strong performance of RICHES across ODQA tasks including attributed and multi-hop QA."}
{"Title": "Task Arithmetic can Mitigate Synthetic-to-Real Gap in Automatic Speech Recognition", "Abstract": "Synthetic data is widely used in speech recognition due to the availability of text-to-speech models, which facilitate adapting models to previously unseen text domains. However, existing methods suffer in performance when they fine-tune an automatic speech recognition (ASR) model on synthetic data as they suffer from the distributional shift commonly referred to as the synthetic-to-real gap. In this paper, we find that task arithmetic is effective at mitigating this gap. Our proposed method, $SYN2REAL$ task vector, shows an average improvement of 10.03{\\%} improvement in word error rate over baselines on the SLURP dataset. Additionally, we show that an average of $SYN2REAL$ task vectors, when we have real speeches from multiple different domains, can further adapt the original ASR model to perform better on the target text domain."}
{"Title": "Learning to Correct for QA Reasoning with Black-box LLMs", "Abstract": "An open challenge in recent machine learning is about how to improve the reasoning capability of large language models (LLMs) in a black-box setting, i.e., without access to detailed information such as output token probabilities. Existing approaches either rely on accessibility (which is often unrealistic) or involve significantly increased train- and inference-time costs. This paper addresses those limitations or shortcomings by proposing a novel approach, namely CoBB (Correct for improving QA reasoning of Black-Box LLMs). It uses a trained adaptation model to perform a seq2seq mapping from the often-imperfect reasonings of the original black-box LLM to the correct or improved reasonings. Specifically, the adaptation model is initialized with a relatively small open-source LLM and adapted over a collection of sub-sampled training pairs. To select the representative pairs of correct and incorrect reasonings, we formulated the dataset construction as an optimization problem that minimizes the statistical divergence between the sampled subset and the entire collection, and solved it via a genetic algorithm. We then train the adaptation model over the sampled pairs by contrasting the likelihoods of correct and incorrect reasonings. Our experimental results demonstrate that CoBB significantly improves reasoning accuracy across various QA benchmarks, compared to the best-performing adaptation baselines."}
{"Title": "AssistantBench: Can Web Agents Solve Realistic and Time-Consuming Tasks?", "Abstract": "Language agents, built on top of language models (LMs), are systems that can interact with complex environments, such as the open web. In this work, we examine whether such agents can perform realistic and time-consuming tasks on the web, e.g., monitoring real-estate markets or locating relevant nearby businesses. We introduce AssistantBench, a challenging new benchmark consisting of 214 realistic tasks that can be automatically evaluated, covering different scenarios and domains. We find that AssistantBench exposes the limitations of current systems, including language models and retrieval-augmented language models, as no model reaches an accuracy of more than 25 points. While closed-book LMs perform well in terms of accuracy, they exhibit low precision and tend to hallucinate facts. State-of-the-art web agents reach a score of near zero. Additionally, we introduce SeePlanAct (SPA), a new web agent that significantly outperforms previous agents, and an ensemble of SPA and closed-book models reaches the best overall performance. Moreover, we analyze failures of current systems and highlight that open web navigation remains a major challenge."}
{"Title": "PostMark: A Robust Blackbox Watermark for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The most effective techniques to detect LLM-generated text rely on inserting a detectable signature{---}or watermark{---}during the model{'}s decoding process. Most existing watermarking methods require access to the underlying LLM{'}s logits, which LLM API providers are loath to share due to fears of model distillation. As such, these watermarks must be implemented independently by each LLM provider. In this paper, we develop PostMark, a modular post-hoc watermarking procedure in which an input-dependent set of words (determined via a semantic embedding) is inserted into the text after the decoding process has completed. Critically, PostMark does not require logit access, which means it can be implemented by a third party. We also show that PostMark is more robust to paraphrasing attacks than existing watermarking methods: our experiments cover eight baseline algorithms, five base LLMs, and three datasets. Finally, we evaluate the impact of PostMark on text quality using both automated and human assessments, highlighting the trade-off between quality and robustness to paraphrasing. We release our code, outputs, and annotations at https://github.com/lilakk/PostMark."}
{"Title": "Assessing \u201cImplicit\u201d Retrieval Robustness of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Retrieval-augmented generation has gained popularity as a framework to enhance large language models with external knowledge. However, its effectiveness hinges on the retrieval robustness of the model. If the model lacks retrieval robustness, its performance is constrained by the accuracy of the retriever, resulting in significant compromises when the retrieved context is irrelevant. In this paper, we evaluate the {``}implicit{''} retrieval robustness of various large language models, instructing them to directly output the final answer without explicitly judging the relevance of the retrieved context. Our findings reveal that fine-tuning on a mix of gold and distracting context significantly enhances the model{'}s robustness to retrieval inaccuracies, while still maintaining its ability to extract correct answers when retrieval is accurate. This suggests that large language models can implicitly handle relevant or irrelevant retrieved context by learning solely from the supervision of the final answer in an end-to-end manner. Introducing an additional process for explicit relevance judgment can be unnecessary and disrupts the end-to-end approach."}
{"Title": "On the Relationship between Truth and Political Bias in Language Models", "Abstract": "Language model alignment research often attempts to ensure that models are not only helpful and harmless, but also truthful and unbiased. However, optimizing these objectives simultaneously can obscure how improving one aspect might impact the others. In this work, we focus on analyzing the relationship between two concepts essential in both language model alignment and political science: truthfulness and political bias. We train reward models on various popular truthfulness datasets and subsequently evaluate their political bias. Our findings reveal that optimizing reward models for truthfulness on these datasets tends to result in a left-leaning political bias. We also find that existing open-source reward models (i.e., those trained on standard human preference datasets) already show a similar bias and that the bias is larger for larger models. These results raise important questions about the datasets used to represent truthfulness, potential limitations of aligning models to be both truthful and politically unbiased, and what language models capture about the relationship between truth and politics."}
{"Title": "Can Active Label Correction Improve LLM-based Modular AI Systems?", "Abstract": "Modular AI systems can be developed using LLM-prompts-based modules to minimize deployment time even for complex tasks. However, these systems do not always perform well and improving them using the data traces collected from a deployment remains an open challenge. The data traces contain LLM inputs and outputs, but the annotations from LLMs are noisy. We hypothesize that Active Label Correction (ALC) can be use on the collected data to train smaller task-specific improved models that can replace LLM-based modules. In this paper, we study the noise in three GPT-3.5-annotated datasets and their denoising with human feedback. We also propose a novel method ALC3 that iteratively applies three updates to the training dataset: auto-correction, correction using human feedback and filtering. Our results show that ALC3 can lead to oracle performance with feedback on 17-24{\\%} fewer examples than the number of noisy examples in the dataset across three different NLP tasks."}
{"Title": "Statistical Uncertainty in Word Embeddings: GloVe-V", "Abstract": "Static word embeddings are ubiquitous in computational social science applications and contribute to practical decision-making in a variety of fields including law and healthcare. However, assessing the statistical uncertainty in downstream conclusions drawn from word embedding statistics has remained challenging. When using only point estimates for embeddings, researchers have no streamlined way of assessing the degree to which their model selection criteria or scientific conclusions are subject to noise due to sparsity in the underlying data used to generate the embeddings. We introduce a method to obtain approximate, easy-to-use, and scalable reconstruction error variance estimates for GloVe, one of the most widely used word embedding models, using an analytical approximation to a multivariate normal model. To demonstrate the value of embeddings with variance (GloVe-V), we illustrate how our approach enables principled hypothesis testing in core word embedding tasks, such as comparing the similarity between different word pairs in vector space, assessing the performance of different models, and analyzing the relative degree of ethnic or gender bias in a corpus using different word lists."}
{"Title": "Annotation alignment: Comparing LLM and human annotations of conversational safety", "Abstract": "Do LLMs align with human perceptions of safety? We study this question via *annotation alignment*, the extent to which LLMs and humans agree when annotating the safety of user-chatbot conversations. We leverage the recent DICES dataset (Aroyo et al. 2023), in which 350 conversations are each rated for safety by 112 annotators spanning 10 race-gender groups. GPT-4 achieves a Pearson correlation of $r=0.59$ with the average annotator rating, higher than the median annotator{'}s correlation with the average ($r=0.51$). We show that larger datasets are needed to resolve whether GPT-4 exhibits disparities in how well it correlates with different demographic groups. Also, there is substantial idiosyncratic variation in correlation within groups, suggesting that race {\\&} gender do not fully capture differences in alignment. Finally, we find that GPT-4 cannot predict when one demographic group finds a conversation more unsafe than another."}
{"Title": "DiVERT: Distractor Generation with Variational Errors Represented as Text for Math Multiple-choice Questions", "Abstract": "High-quality distractors are crucial to both the assessment and pedagogical value of multiple-choice questions (MCQs), where manually crafting ones that anticipate knowledge deficiencies or misconceptions among real students is difficult. Meanwhile, automated distractor generation, even with the help of large language models (LLMs), remains challenging for subjects like math. It is crucial to not only identify plausible distractors but also understand the error behind them. In this paper, we introduce DiVERT (Distractor Generation with Variational Errors Represented as Text), a novel variational approach that learns an interpretable representation of errors behind distractors in math MCQs. Through experiments on a real-world math MCQ dataset with 1,434 questions used by hundreds of thousands of students, we show that DiVERT, despite using a base open-source LLM with 7B parameters, outperforms state-of-the-art approaches using GPT-4o on downstream distractor generation. We also conduct a human evaluation with math educators and find that DiVERT leads to error labels that are of comparable quality to human-authored ones."}
{"Title": "The Factuality Tax of Diversity-Intervened Text-to-Image Generation: Benchmark and Fact-Augmented Intervention", "Abstract": "Prompt-based {``}diversity interventions{''} are commonly adopted to improve the diversity of Text-to-Image (T2I) models depicting individuals with various racial or gender traits. However, will this strategy result in nonfactual demographic distribution, especially when generating real historical figures? In this work, we propose **DemOgraphic FActualIty Representation (DoFaiR)**, a benchmark to systematically quantify the trade-off between using diversity interventions and preserving demographic factuality in T2I models. DoFaiR consists of 756 meticulously fact-checked test instances to reveal the factuality tax of various diversity prompts through an automated evidence-supported evaluation pipeline. Experiments on DoFaiR unveil that diversity-oriented instructions increase the number of different gender and racial groups in DALLE-3{'}s generations at the cost of historically inaccurate demographic distributions. To resolve this issue, we propose **Fact-Augmented Intervention** (FAI), which instructs a Large Language Model (LLM) to reflect on verbalized or retrieved factual information about gender and racial compositions of generation subjects in history, and incorporate it into the generation context of T2I models. By orienting model generations using the reflected historical truths, FAI significantly improves the demographic factuality under diversity interventions while preserving diversity."}
{"Title": "CleanGen: Mitigating Backdoor Attacks for Generation Tasks in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The remarkable performance of large language models (LLMs) in generation tasks has enabled practitioners to leverage publicly available models to power custom applications, such as chatbots and virtual assistants. However, the data used to train or fine-tune these LLMs is often undisclosed, allowing an attacker to compromise the data and inject backdoors into the models. In this paper, we develop a novel inference time defense, named CleanGen, to mitigate backdoor attacks for generation tasks in LLMs. CleanGen is a lightweight and effective decoding strategy that is compatible with the state-of-the-art (SOTA) LLMs. Our insight behind CleanGen is that compared to other LLMs, backdoored LLMs assign significantly higher probabilities to tokens representing the attacker-desired contents. These discrepancies in token probabilities enable CleanGen to identify suspicious tokens favored by the attacker and replace them with tokens generated by another LLM that is not compromised by the same attacker, thereby avoiding generation of attacker-desired content. We evaluate CleanGen against five SOTA backdoor attacks. Our results show that CleanGen achieves lower attack success rates (ASR) compared to five SOTA baseline defenses for all five backdoor attacks. Moreover, LLMs deploying CleanGen maintain helpfulness in their responses when serving benign user queries with minimal added computational overhead."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Reinforcement Learning with Dense Rewards from Language Model Critic", "Abstract": "Reinforcement learning (RL) can align language models with non-differentiable reward signals, such as human preferences. However, a major challenge arises from the sparsity of these reward signals - typically, there is only a single reward for an entire output. This sparsity of rewards can lead to inefficient and unstable learning. To address this challenge, our paper introduces an novel framework that utilizes the critique capability of Large Language Models (LLMs) to produce intermediate-step rewards during RL training. Our method involves coupling a policy model with a critic language model, which is responsible for providing comprehensive feedback of each part of the output. This feedback is then translated into token or span-level rewards that can be used to guide the RL training process. We investigate this approach under two different settings: one where the policy model is smaller and is paired with a more powerful critic model, and another where a single language model fulfills both roles. We assess our approach on three text generation tasks: sentiment control, language model detoxification, and summarization. Experimental results show that incorporating artificial intrinsic rewards significantly improve both sample efficiency and the overall performance of the policy model, supported by both automatic and human evaluation."}
{"Title": "Words Matter: Reducing Stigma in Online Conversations about Substance Use with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Stigma is a barrier to treatment for individuals struggling with substance use disorders (SUD), which leads to significantly lower treatment engagement rates. With only 7{\\%} of those affected receiving any form of help, societal stigma not only discourages individuals with SUD from seeking help but isolates them, hindering their recovery journey and perpetuating a cycle of shame and self-doubt. This study investigates how stigma manifests on social media, particularly Reddit, where anonymity can exacerbate discriminatory behaviors. We analyzed over 1.2 million posts, identifying 3,207 that exhibited stigmatizing language related to people who use substances (PWUS). Of these, 1,649 posts were classified as containing directed stigma towards PWUS, which became the focus of our de-stigmatization efforts. Using Informed and Stylized LLMs, we developed a model to transform these instances into more empathetic language.Our paper contributes to the field by proposing a computational framework for analyzing stigma and de-stigmatizing online content, and delving into the linguistic features that propagate stigma towards PWUS. Our work not only enhances understanding of stigma{'}s manifestations online but also provides practical tools for fostering a more supportive environment for those affected by SUD."}
{"Title": "Efficient Sequential Decision Making with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "This paper focuses on extending the success of large language models (LLMs) to sequential decision making. Existing efforts either (i) re-train or finetune LLMs for decision making, or (ii) design prompts for pretrained LLMs. The former approach suffers from the computational burden of gradient updates, and the latter approach does not show promising results. In this paper, we propose a new approach that leverages online model selection algorithms to efficiently incorporate LLMs agents into sequential decision making. Statistically, our approach significantly outperforms both traditional decision making algorithms and vanilla LLM agents. Computationally, our approach avoids the need for expensive gradient updates of LLMs, and throughout the decision making process, it requires only a small number of LLM calls. We conduct extensive experiments to verify the effectiveness of our proposed approach. As an example, on a large-scale Amazon dataset, our approach achieves more than a 6x performance gain over baselines while calling LLMs in only 1.5{\\%} of the time steps."}
{"Title": "SignCLIP: Connecting Text and Sign Language by Contrastive Learning", "Abstract": "We present SignCLIP, which re-purposes CLIP (Contrastive Language-Image Pretraining) to project spoken language text and sign language videos, two classes of natural languages of distinct modalities, into the same space. SignCLIP is an efficient method of learning useful visual representations for sign language processing from large-scale, multilingual video-text pairs, without directly optimizing for a specific task or sign language which is often of limited size.We pretrain SignCLIP on Spreadthesign, a prominent sign language dictionary consisting of {\\textasciitilde}500 thousand video clips in up to 44 sign languages, and evaluate it with various downstream datasets. SignCLIP discerns in-domain signing with notable text-to-video/video-to-text retrieval accuracy. It also performs competitively for out-of-domain downstream tasks such as isolated sign language recognition upon essential few-shot prompting or fine-tuning.We analyze the latent space formed by the spoken language text and sign language poses, which provides additional linguistic insights. Our code and models are openly available."}
{"Title": "APPLS: Evaluating Evaluation Metrics for Plain Language Summarization", "Abstract": "While there has been significant development of models for Plain Language Summarization (PLS), evaluation remains a challenge. PLS lacks a dedicated assessment metric, and the suitability of text generation evaluation metrics is unclear due to the unique transformations involved (e.g., adding background explanations, removing jargon). To address these questions, our study introduces a granular meta-evaluation testbed, APPLS, designed to evaluate metrics for PLS. We identify four PLS criteria from previous work{---}informativeness, simplification, coherence, and faithfulness{---}and define a set of perturbations corresponding to these criteria that sensitive metrics should be able to detect. We apply these perturbations to extractive hypotheses for two PLS datasets to form our testbed. Using APPLS, we assess performance of 14 metrics, including automated scores, lexical features, and LLM prompt-based evaluations. Our analysis reveals that while some current metrics show sensitivity to specific criteria, no single method captures all four criteria simultaneously. We therefore recommend a suite of automated metrics be used to capture PLS quality along all relevant criteria. This work contributes the first meta-evaluation testbed for PLS and a comprehensive evaluation of existing metrics."}
{"Title": "Ontologically Faithful Generation of Non-Player Character Dialogues", "Abstract": "We introduce a language generation dataset grounded in a popular video game. KNUDGE (**KN**owledge Constrained **U**ser-NPC **D**ialogue **GE**neration) requires models to produce trees of dialogue between video game characters that accurately reflect quest and entity specifications stated in natural language. KNUDGE is constructed from side quest dialogues drawn directly from game data of Obsidian Entertainment{'}s {\\_}The Outer Worlds{\\_}, leading to real-world complexities in generation: (1) utterances must remain faithful to the game lore, including character personas and backstories; (2) a dialogue must accurately reveal new quest details to the human player; and (3) dialogues are large trees as opposed to linear chains of utterances. We report results for a set of neural generation models using supervised and in-context learning techniques; we find competent performance but room for future work addressing the challenges of creating realistic, game-quality dialogues."}
{"Title": "LLM See, LLM Do: Leveraging Active Inheritance to Target Non-Differentiable Objectives", "Abstract": "The widespread adoption of synthetic data raises new questions about how models generating the data can influence other large language models (LLMs). To start, our work exhaustively characterizes the impact of passive inheritance of model properties by systematically studying how the source of synthetic data shapes models{'} internal biases, calibration and preferences, and their generations{'} textual attributes, providing one of the most comprehensive studies to-date. We find that models are surprisingly sensitive towards certain attributes even when the synthetic data prompts appear {``}neutral{''} which invites the question: can we explicitly steer the distilled data towards desired properties? We demonstrate how such active inheritance can steer the generation profiles of models towards desirable non-differentiable attributes in both directions, e.g. increasing lexical diversity or reducing toxicity. Overall, our study broadens the understanding of the implicit biases inherited by LLMs and explores how we can leverage them to positive effect."}
{"Title": "RuBLiMP: Russian Benchmark of Linguistic Minimal Pairs", "Abstract": "Minimal pairs are a well-established approach to evaluating the grammatical knowledge of language models. However, existing resources for minimal pairs address a limited number of languages and lack diversity of language-specific grammatical phenomena. This paper introduces the Russian Benchmark of Linguistic Minimal Pairs (RuBLiMP), which includes 45k pairs of sentences that differ in grammaticality and isolate a morphological, syntactic, or semantic phenomenon. In contrast to existing benchmarks of linguistic minimal pairs, RuBLiMP is created by applying linguistic perturbations to automatically annotated sentences from open text corpora and decontaminating test data. We describe the data collection protocol and present the results of evaluating 25 language models in various scenarios. We find that the widely used LMs for Russian are sensitive to morphological and agreement-oriented contrasts, but fall behind humans on phenomena requiring the understanding of structural relations, negation, transitivity, and tense. RuBLiMP, the codebase, and other materials are publicly available."}
{"Title": "Text-Tuple-Table: Towards Information Integration in Text-to-Table Generation via Global Tuple Extraction", "Abstract": "The task of condensing large chunks of textual information into concise and structured tables has gained attention recently due to the emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs) and their potential benefit for downstream tasks, such as text summarization and text mining. Previous approaches often generate tables that directly replicate information from the text, limiting their applicability in broader contexts, as text-to-table generation in real-life scenarios necessitates information extraction, reasoning, and integration. However, there is a lack of both datasets and methodologies towards this task. In this paper, we introduce LiveSum, a new benchmark dataset created for generating summary tables of competitions based on real-time commentary texts. We evaluate the performances of state-of-the-art LLMs on this task in both fine-tuning and zero-shot settings, and additionally propose a novel pipeline called $T^3$(Text-Tuple-Table) to improve their performances. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that LLMs still struggle with this task even after fine-tuning, while our approach can offer substantial performance gains without explicit training. Further analyses demonstrate that our method exhibits strong generalization abilities, surpassing previous approaches on several other text-to-table datasets. Our codeand data can be found at https://github.com/HKUST-KnowComp/LiveSum."}
{"Title": "Toward Compositional Behavior in Neural Models: A Survey of Current Views", "Abstract": "Compositionality is a core property of natural language, and compositional behavior (CB) is a crucial goal for modern NLP systems. The research literature, however, includes conflicting perspectives on how CB should be defined, evaluated, and achieved. We propose a conceptual framework to address these questions and survey researchers active in this area.We find consensus on several key points. Researchers broadly accept our proposed definition of CB, agree that it is not solved by current models, and doubt that scale alone will achieve the target behavior. In other areas, we find the field is split on how to move forward, identifying diverse opportunities for future research."}
{"Title": "Optimizing Instructions and Demonstrations for Multi-Stage Language Model Programs", "Abstract": "Language Model Programs, i.e. sophisticated pipelines of modular language model (LM) calls, are increasingly advancing NLP tasks, but they require crafting prompts that are jointly effective for all modules. We study prompt optimization for LM programs, i.e. how to update these prompts to maximize a downstream metric without access to module-level labels or gradients. To make this tractable, we factorize our problem into optimizing the free-form instructions and few-shot demonstrations of every module and introduce several strategies to craft task-grounded instructions and navigate credit assignment across modules. Our strategies include (i) program- and data-aware techniques for proposing effective instructions, (ii) a stochastic mini-batch evaluation function for learning a surrogate model of our objective, and (iii) a meta-optimization procedure in which we refine how LMs construct proposals over time. Using these insights we develop MIPRO, a novel algorithm for optimizing LM programs. MIPRO outperforms baseline optimizers on five of seven diverse multi-stage LM programs using a best-in-class open-source model (Llama-3-8B), by as high as 13{\\%} accuracy. We have released our new optimizers and benchmark in DSPy at [http://dspy.ai](http://dspy.ai)."}
{"Title": "Reverse-Engineering the Reader", "Abstract": "Numerous previous studies have sought to determine to what extent language models, pretrained on natural language text, can serve as useful models of human cognition.In this paper, we are interested in the opposite question: whether we can directly optimize a language model to be a useful cognitive model by aligning it to human psychometric data.To achieve this, we introduce a novel alignment technique in which we fine-tune a language model to implicitly optimize the parameters of a linear regressor that directly predicts humans{'} reading times of in-context linguistic units, e.g., phonemes, morphemes, or words, using surprisal estimates derived from the language model. Using words as a test case, we evaluate our technique across multiple model sizes and datasets and find that it improves language models{'} psychometric predictive power.However, we find an inverse relationship between psychometric power and a model{'}s performance on downstream NLP tasks as well as its perplexity on held-out test data.While this latter trend has been observed before (Oh et al., 2022; Shain et al., 2024), we are the first to induce it by manipulating a model{'}s alignment to psychometric data."}
{"Title": "Synchronous Faithfulness Monitoring for Trustworthy Retrieval-Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Retrieval-augmented language models (RALMs) have shown strong performance and wide applicability in knowledge-intensive tasks. However, there are significant trustworthiness concerns as RALMs are prone to generating unfaithful outputs, including baseless information or contradictions with the retrieved context. This paper proposes SynCheck, a lightweight monitor that leverages fine-grained decoding dynamics including sequence likelihood, uncertainty quantification, context influence, and semantic alignment to synchronously detect unfaithful sentences. By integrating efficiently measurable and complementary signals, SynCheck enables accurate and immediate feedback and intervention. Experiments show that SynCheck significantly outperforms existing faithfulness detection baselines, achieving over 0.85 AUROC across a suite of six long-form retrieval-augmented generation tasks. Leveraging SynCheck, we further introduce FOD, a faithfulness-oriented decoding algorithm guided by beam search for long-form retrieval-augmented generation. Empirical results demonstrate that FOD outperforms traditional strategies such as abstention, reranking, or contrastive decoding significantly in terms of faithfulness, achieving over 10{\\%} improvement across six datasets."}
{"Title": "Structure Guided Prompt: Instructing Large Language Model in Multi-Step Reasoning by Exploring Graph Structure of the Text", "Abstract": "Although Large Language Models (LLMs) excel at addressing straightforward reasoning tasks, they frequently struggle with difficulties when confronted by more complex multi-step reasoning due to a range of factors. Firstly, natural language often encompasses complex relationships among entities, making it challenging to maintain a clear reasoning chain over longer spans. Secondly, the abundance of linguistic diversity means that the same entities and relationships can be expressed using different terminologies and structures, complicating the task of identifying and establishing connections between multiple pieces of information. Graphs provide an effective solution to represent data rich in relational information and capture long-term dependencies among entities. To harness the potential of graphs, our paper introduces Structure Guided Prompt, an innovative three-stage task-agnostic prompting framework designed to improve the multi-step reasoning capabilities of LLMs in a zero-shot setting. This framework explicitly converts unstructured text into a graph via LLMs and instructs them to navigate this graph using task-specific strategies to formulate responses. By effectively organizing information and guiding navigation, it enables LLMs to provide more accurate and context-aware responses. Our experiments show that this framework significantly enhances the reasoning capabilities of LLMs, enabling them to excel in a broader spectrum of natural language scenarios."}
{"Title": "Less is More: Parameter-Efficient Selection of Intermediate Tasks for Transfer Learning", "Abstract": "Intermediate task transfer learning can greatly improve model performance. If, for example, one has little training data for emotion detection, first fine-tuning a language model on a sentiment classification dataset may improve performance strongly. But which task to choose for transfer learning? Prior methods producing useful task rankings are infeasible for large source pools, as they require forward passes through all source language models. We overcome this by introducing Embedding Space Maps (ESMs), light-weight neural networks that approximate the effect of fine-tuning a language model. We conduct the largest study on NLP task transferability and task selection with 12k source-target pairs. We find that applying ESMs on a prior method reduces execution time and disk space usage by factors of 10 and 278, respectively, while retaining high selection performance (avg. regret@5 score of 2.95)."}
{"Title": "The effects of distance on NPI illusive effects in BERT", "Abstract": "Previous studies have examined the syntactic capabilities of large pre-trained language models, such as BERT, by using stimuli from psycholinguistic studies. Studying well-known processing errors, such as NPI illusive effects can reveal whether a model prioritizes linear or hierarchical information when processing language. Recent experiments have found that BERT is mildly susceptible to Negative Polarity Item (NPI) illusion effects (Shin et al., 2023; Vu and Lee, 2022). We expand on these results by examining the effect of distance on the illusive effect, using and modifying stimuli from Parker and Phillips (2016). We also further tease apart whether the model is more affected by hierarchical distance or linear distance. We find that BERT is highly sensitive to syntactic hierarchical information: added hierarchical layers affected its processing capabilities compared to added linear distance."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Systematic Decompositional Natural Language Inference Using Informal Logic", "Abstract": "Recent language models enable new opportunities for structured reasoning with text, such as the construction of intuitive, proof-like textual entailment trees without relying on brittle formal logic. However, progress in this direction has been hampered by a long-standing lack of a clear protocol for determining what {\\_}valid decompositional entailment{\\_} is. This absence causes noisy datasets and limited performance gains by modern neuro-symbolic entailment engines. To address these problems, we formulate a consistent and theoretically grounded approach to annotating decompositional entailment and evaluate its impact on LLM-based textual inference. We find that our new dataset, RDTE (Recognizing Decompositional Textual Entailment), has a substantially higher internal consistency than prior decompositional entailment datasets, suggesting that RDTE is a significant step forward in the long-standing problem of forming a clear protocol for discerning entailment. We also find that training an RDTE-oriented entailment classifier via knowledge distillation and employing it in an entailment tree reasoning engine significantly improves both accuracy and proof quality, illustrating the practical benefit of this advance for textual inference."}
{"Title": "Susu Box or Piggy Bank: Assessing Cultural Commonsense Knowledge between Ghana and the US", "Abstract": "Recent work has highlighted the culturally-contingent nature of commonsense knowledge. We introduce AMAMMER\u00ce\u00b5, a test set of 525 multiple-choice questions designed to evaluate the commonsense knowledge of English LLMs, relative to the cultural contexts of Ghana and the United States. To create AMAMMER\u00ce\u00b5, we select a set of multiple-choice questions (MCQs) from existing commonsense datasets and rewrite them in a multi-stage process involving surveys of Ghanaian and U.S. participants. In three rounds of surveys, participants from both pools are solicited to (1) write correct and incorrect answer choices, (2) rate individual answer choices on a 5-point Likert scale, and (3) select the best answer choice from the newly-constructed MCQ items, in a final validation step. By engaging participants at multiple stages, our procedure ensures that participant perspectives are incorporated both in the creation and validation of test items, resulting in high levels of agreement within each pool. We evaluate several off-the-shelf English LLMs on AMAMMER\u00ce\u00b5. Uniformly, models prefer answers choices that align with the preferences of U.S. annotators over Ghanaian annotators. Additionally, when test items specify a cultural context (Ghana or the U.S.), models exhibit some ability to adapt, but performance is consistently better in U.S. contexts than Ghanaian. As large resources are devoted to the advancement of English LLMs, our findings underscore the need for culturally adaptable models and evaluations to meet the needs of diverse English-speaking populations around the world."}
{"Title": "Read Anywhere Pointed: Layout-aware GUI Screen Reading with Tree-of-Lens Grounding", "Abstract": "Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs) are central to our interaction with digital devices and growing efforts have been made to build models for various GUI understanding tasks. However, these efforts largely overlook an important GUI-referring task: screen reading based on user-indicated points, which we name the Screen Point-and-Read (ScreenPR) task. Currently, this task is predominantly handled by rigid accessible screen reading tools, in great need of new models driven by advancements in Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs). In this paper, we propose a Tree-of-Lens (ToL) agent, utilizing a novel ToL grounding mechanism, to address the ScreenPR task. Based on the input point coordinate and the corresponding GUI screenshot, our ToL agent constructs a Hierarchical Layout Tree. Based on the tree, our ToL agent not only comprehends the content of the indicated area but also articulates the layout and spatial relationships between elements. Such layout information is crucial for accurately interpreting information on the screen, distinguishing our ToL agent from other screen reading tools. We also thoroughly evaluate the ToL agent against other baselines on a newly proposed ScreenPR benchmark, which includes GUIs from mobile, web, and operating systems. Last but not least, we test the ToL agent on mobile GUI navigation tasks, demonstrating its utility in identifying incorrect actions along the path of agent execution trajectories. Code and data: https://screen-point-and-read.github.io."}
{"Title": "Ranking Manipulation for Conversational Search Engines", "Abstract": "Major search engine providers are rapidly incorporating Large Language Model (LLM)-generated content in response to user queries. These *conversational search engines* operate by loading retrieved website text into the LLM context for summarization and interpretation. Recent research demonstrates that LLMs are highly vulnerable to jailbreaking and prompt injection attacks, which disrupt the safety and quality goals of LLMs using adversarial strings. This work investigates the impact of prompt injections on the ranking order of sources referenced by conversational search engines. To this end, we introduce a focused dataset of real-world consumer product websites and formalize conversational search ranking as an adversarial problem. Experimentally, we analyze conversational search rankings in the absence of adversarial injections and show that different LLMs vary significantly in prioritizing product name, document content, and context position. We then present a tree-of-attacks-based jailbreaking technique which reliably promotes low-ranked products. Importantly, these attacks transfer effectively to state-of-the-art conversational search engines such as *perplexity.ai*. Given the strong financial incentive for website owners to boost their search ranking, we argue that our problem formulation is of critical importance for future robustness work."}
{"Title": "Fast Forwarding Low-Rank Training", "Abstract": "Parameter efficient finetuning methods like low-rank adaptation (LoRA) aim to reduce the computational costs of finetuning pretrained Language Models (LMs). Enabled by these low-rank settings, we propose an even more efficient optimization strategy: Fast Forward, a simple and effective approach to accelerate large segments of SGD training. In a Fast Forward stage, we repeat the most recent optimizer step until the loss stops improving on a tiny validation set. By alternating between regular optimization steps and Fast Forward stages, Fast Forward provides up to an 87{\\%} reduction in FLOPs over standard SGD with Adam. We validate Fast Forward by finetuning various models on different tasks and demonstrate that it speeds up training without compromising model performance. Additionally, we analyze when and how to apply Fast Forward."}
{"Title": "Precise Model Benchmarking with Only a Few Observations", "Abstract": "How can we precisely estimate a large language model{'}s (LLM) accuracy on questions belonging to a specific topic within a larger question-answering dataset? The standard direct estimator, which averages the model{'}s accuracy on the questions in each subgroup, may exhibit high variance for subgroups (topics) with small sample sizes. Synthetic regression modeling, which leverages the model{'}s accuracy on questions about other topics, may yield biased estimates that are too unreliable for large subgroups. We prescribe a simple yet effective solution: an empirical Bayes (EB) estimator that balances direct and regression estimates for each subgroup separately, improving the precision of subgroup-level estimates of model performance. Our experiments on multiple datasets show that this approach consistently provides more precise estimates of the LLM performance compared to the direct and regression approaches, achieving substantial reductions in the mean squared error. Confidence intervals for EB estimates also have near-nominal coverage and are narrower compared to those for the direct estimator. Additional experiments on tabular and vision data validate the benefits of this EB approach."}
{"Title": "Attribute Diversity Determines the Systematicity Gap in VQA", "Abstract": "Although modern neural networks often generalize to new combinations of familiar concepts, the conditions that enable such compositionality have long been an open question. In this work, we study the systematicity gap in visual question answering: the performance difference between reasoning on previously seen and unseen combinations of object attributes. To test, we introduce a novel diagnostic dataset, CLEVR-HOPE. We find that the systematicity gap is not reduced by increasing the quantity of training data, but is reduced by increasing the diversity of training data. In particular, our experiments suggest that the more distinct attribute type combinations are seen during training, the more systematic we can expect the resulting model to be."}
{"Title": "ArxivDIGESTables: Synthesizing Scientific Literature into Tables using Language Models", "Abstract": "When conducting literature reviews, scientists often create literature review tables{---}tables whose rows are publications and whose columns constitute a schema, a set of aspects used to compare and contrast the papers. Can we automatically generate these tables using language models (LMs)? In this work, we introduce a framework that leverages LMs to perform this task by decomposing it into separate schema and value generation steps. To enable experimentation, we address two main challenges: First, we overcome a lack of high-quality datasets to benchmark table generation by curating and releasing arxivDIGESTables, a new dataset of 2,228 literature review tables extracted from ArXiv papers that synthesize a total of 7,542 research papers. Second, to support scalable evaluation of model generations against human-authored reference tables, we develop DecontextEval, an automatic evaluation method that aligns elements of tables with the same underlying aspects despite differing surface forms. Given these tools, we evaluate LMs{'} abilities to reconstruct reference tables, finding this task benefits from additional context to ground the generation (e.g. table captions, in-text references). Finally, through a human evaluation study we find that even when LMs fail to fully reconstruct a reference table, their generated novel aspects can still be useful."}
{"Title": "Development of Cognitive Intelligence in Pre-trained Language Models", "Abstract": "Recent studies show evidence for emergent cognitive abilities in Large Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs). The increasing cognitive alignment of these models has made them candidates for cognitive science theories. Prior research into the emergent cognitive abilities of PLMs has been path-independent to model training, i.e. has only looked at the final model weights and not the intermediate steps. However, building plausible models of human cognition using PLMs also requires aligning their performance during training to the developmental trajectories of children{'}s thinking. Guided by psychometric tests of human intelligence, we choose four task categories to investigate the alignment of ten popular families of PLMs and evaluate each of their available intermediate and final training steps: Numerical ability, Linguistic abilities, Conceptual understanding, and Fluid reasoning. We find a striking regularity: regardless of model size, the developmental trajectories of PLMs consistently exhibit a window of maximal alignment to human cognitive development. Before that window, training appears to endow models with the requisite structure to be poised to rapidly learn from experience. After that window, training appears to serve the engineering goal of reducing loss but not the scientific goal of increasing alignment with human cognition."}
{"Title": "Modeling Layout Reading Order as Ordering Relations for Visually-rich Document Understanding", "Abstract": "Modeling and leveraging layout reading order in visually-rich documents (VrDs) is critical in document intelligence as it captures the rich structure semantics within documents.Previous works typically formulated layout reading order as a permutation of layout elements, i.e. a sequence containing all the layout elements.However, we argue that this formulation does not adequately convey the complete reading order information in the layout, which may potentially lead to performance decline in downstream tasks.To address this issue, we propose to model the layout reading order as ordering relations over the set of layout elements, which have sufficient expressive capability for the complete reading order information. To enable empirical evaluation on methods towards the improved form of reading order prediction (ROP), we establish a comprehensive benchmark dataset including the reading order annotation as relations over layout elements, together with a relation-extraction-based method that outperforms previous models. Moreover, we propose a reading-order-relation-enhancing pipeline to improve model performance on any arbitrary VrD task by introducing additional reading order relation inputs.We conduct comprehensive experiments to demonstrate that the pipeline generally benefits downstream VrD tasks:(1) with utilizing the reading order relation information, the enhanced downstream models achieve SOTA results on both two task settings of the targeted dataset; (2) with utilizing the pseudo reading order information generated by the proposed ROP model, the performance of the enhanced models has improved across all three models and eight cross-domain VrD-IE/QA task settings without targeted optimization."}
{"Title": "Birdie: Advancing State Space Language Modeling with Dynamic Mixtures of Training Objectives", "Abstract": "Efficient state space models (SSMs), including linear recurrent neural networks and linear attention variants, have emerged as potential alternative language models to Transformers. While efficient, SSMs struggle with tasks requiring in-context retrieval, such as text copying and associative recall, limiting their usefulness in practical settings. Prior work on how to meet this challenge has focused on the internal model architecture and not investigated the role of the training procedure. This paper proposes a new training procedure that improve the performance of SSMs on retrieval-intensive tasks. This novel pre-training procedure combines a bidirectional processing of the input with dynamic mixtures of pre-training objectives to improve the utilization of the SSM{'}s fixed-size state. Our experimental evaluations show that this procedure significantly improves performance on retrieval-intensive tasks that challenge current SSMs, such as phone book lookup, long paragraph question-answering, and infilling tasks. Our findings offer insights into a new direction to advance the training of SSMs to close the performance gap with Transformers."}
{"Title": "Is It Good Data for Multilingual Instruction Tuning or Just Bad Multilingual Evaluation for Large Language Models?", "Abstract": "Multilingual large language models are designed, claimed, and expected to cater to speakers of varied languages. We hypothesise that the current practices of fine-tuning and evaluating these models may not perfectly align with this objective owing to a heavy reliance on translation, which cannot cover language-specific knowledge but can introduce translation defects. It remains unknown whether the nature of the instruction data has an impact on the model output; conversely, it is questionable whether translated test sets can capture such nuances. Due to the often coupled practices of using translated data in both stages, such imperfections could have been overlooked. This work investigates these issues using controlled native or translated data during the instruction tuning and evaluation stages. We show that native or generation benchmarks reveal a notable difference between native and translated instruction data especially when model performance is high, whereas other types of test sets cannot. The comparison between round-trip and single-pass translations reflects the importance of knowledge from language-native resources. Finally, we demonstrate that regularization is beneficial to bridging this gap on structured but not generative tasks."}
{"Title": "Token Erasure as a Footprint of Implicit Vocabulary Items in LLMs", "Abstract": "LLMs process text as sequences of tokens that roughly correspond to words, where less common words are represented by multiple tokens. However, individual tokens are often semantically unrelated to the meanings of the words/concepts they comprise. For example, Llama-2-7b{'}s tokenizer splits the word {``}patrolling{''} into two tokens, {``}pat{''} and {``}rolling{''}, neither of which correspond to semantically meaningful units like {``}patrol{''} or ''-ing.{''} Similarly, the overall meanings of named entities like {``}Neil Young{''} and multi-word expressions like {``}break a leg{''} cannot be directly inferred from their constituent tokens. Mechanistically, how do LLMs convert such arbitrary groups of tokens into useful higher-level representations? In this work, we find that last token representations of named entities and multi-token words exhibit a pronounced {``}erasure{''} effect, where information about previous and current tokens is rapidly forgotten in early layers. Using this observation, we propose a method to {``}read out{''} the implicit vocabulary of an autoregressive LLM by examining differences in token representations across layers, and present results of this method for Llama-2-7b and Llama-3-8B. To our knowledge, this is the first attempt to probe the implicit vocabulary of an LLM."}
{"Title": "TraveLER: A Modular Multi-LMM Agent Framework for Video Question-Answering", "Abstract": "Recently, image-based Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) have made significant progress in video question-answering (VideoQA) using a frame-wise approach by leveraging large-scale pretraining in a zero-shot manner. Nevertheless, these models need to be capable of finding relevant information, extracting it, and answering the question simultaneously. Currently, existing methods perform all of these steps in a single pass without being able to adapt if insufficient or incorrect information is collected. To overcome this, we introduce a modular multi-LMM agent framework based on several agents with different roles, instructed by a Planner agent that updates its instructions using shared feedback from the other agents. Specifically, we propose TraveLER, a method that can create a plan to ''**Trave**rse{''} through the video, ask questions about individual frames to ''**L**ocate{''} and store key information, and then ''**E**valuate{''} if there is enough information to answer the question. Finally, if there is not enough information, our method is able to ''**R**eplan{''} based on its collected knowledge. Through extensive experiments, we find that the proposed TraveLER approach improves performance on several VideoQA benchmarks without the need to fine-tune on specific datasets. Our code is available at https://github.com/traveler-framework/TraveLER."}
{"Title": "Evaluating the Effectiveness of Large Language Models in Establishing Conversational Grounding", "Abstract": "Conversational grounding, vital for building dependable dialog systems, involves ensuring a mutual understanding of shared information. Despite its importance, there has been limited research on this aspect of conversation in recent years, especially after the advent of Large Language Models (LLMs). Previous studies have highlighted the shortcomings of pre-trained language models in conversational grounding. However, most testing for conversational grounding capabilities involves human evaluations that are costly and time-consuming. This has led to a lack of testing across multiple models of varying sizes, a critical need given the rapid rate of new model releases. This gap in research becomes more significant considering recent advances in language models, which have led to new emergent capabilities. In this paper, we aim to evaluate the performance of LLMs in various aspects of conversational grounding and analyze why some models perform better than others. We demonstrate a direct correlation between the size of the pre-training data and conversational grounding abilities, meaning that they have independently acquired a specific form of pragmatic capabilities from larger pre-training datasets. Finally, we propose ways to enhance the capabilities of the models that lag in this aspect."}
{"Title": "Unlocking Memorization in Large Language Models with Dynamic Soft Prompting", "Abstract": "Pretrained large language models (LLMs) have excelled in a variety of natural language processing (NLP) tasks, including summarization, question answering, and translation. However, LLMs pose significant security risks due to their tendency to memorize training data, leading to potential privacy breaches and copyright infringement. Therefore, accurate measurement of the memorization is essential to evaluate and mitigate these potential risks. However, previous attempts to characterize memorization are constrained by either using prefixes only or by prepending a constant soft prompt to the prefixes, which cannot react to changes in input. To address this challenge, we propose a novel method for estimating LLM memorization using dynamic, prefix-dependent soft prompts. Our approach involves training a transformer-based generator to produce soft prompts that adapt to changes in input, thereby enabling more accurate extraction of memorized data. Our method not only addresses the limitations of previous methods but also demonstrates superior performance in diverse experimental settings compared to state-of-the-art techniques. In particular, our method can achieve the maximum relative improvement of 135.3{\\%} and 39.8{\\%} over the vanilla baseline on average in terms of *discoverable memorization rate* for the text generation task and code generation task, respectively. Our code is available at https://github.com/wangger/llm-memorization-dsp."}
{"Title": "If CLIP Could Talk: Understanding Vision-Language Model Representations Through Their Preferred Concept Descriptions", "Abstract": "Recent works often assume that Vision-Language Model (VLM) representations are based on visual attributes like shape. However, it is unclear to what extent VLMs prioritize this information to represent concepts. We propose Extract and Explore (EX2), a novel approach to characterize textual features that are important for VLMs. EX2 uses reinforcement learning to align a large language model with VLM preferences and generates descriptions that incorporate features that are important for the VLM. Then, we inspect the descriptions to identify features that contribute to VLM representations. Using EX2, we find that spurious descriptions have a major role in VLM representations despite providing no helpful information, e.g., Click to enlarge photo of CONCEPT. More importantly, among informative descriptions, VLMs rely significantly on non-visual attributes like habitat (e.g., North America) to represent visual concepts. Also, our analysis reveals that different VLMs prioritize different attributes in their representations. Overall, we show that VLMs do not simply match images to scene descriptions and that non-visual or even spurious descriptions significantly influence their representations."}
{"Title": "Extract, Define, Canonicalize: An LLM-based Framework for Knowledge Graph Construction", "Abstract": "In this work, we are interested in automated methods for knowledge graph creation (KGC) from input text. Progress on large language models (LLMs) has prompted a series of recent works applying them to KGC, e.g., via zero/few-shot prompting. Despite successes on small domain-specific datasets, these models face difficulties scaling up to text common in many real-world applications. A principal issue is that, in prior methods, the KG schema has to be included in the LLM prompt to generate valid triplets; larger and more complex schemas easily exceed the LLMs{'} context window length. Furthermore, there are scenarios where a fixed pre-defined schema is not available and we would like the method to construct a high-quality KG with a succinct self-generated schema. To address these problems, we propose a three-phase framework named Extract-Define-Canonicalize (EDC): open information extraction followed by schema definition and post-hoc canonicalization. EDC is flexible in that it can be applied to settings where a pre-defined target schema is available and when it is not; in the latter case, it constructs a schema automatically and applies self-canonicalization. To further improve performance, we introduce a trained component that retrieves schema elements relevant to the input text; this improves the LLMs{'} extraction performance in a retrieval-augmented generation-like manner. We demonstrate on three KGC benchmarks that EDC is able to extract high-quality triplets without any parameter tuning and with significantly larger schemas compared to prior works. Code for EDC is available at https://github.com/clear-nus/edc."}
{"Title": "MQuinE: a Cure for \u201cZ-paradox\u201d in Knowledge Graph Embedding", "Abstract": "Knowledge graph embedding (KGE) models achieved state-of-the-art results on many knowledge graph tasks including link prediction and information retrieval. Despite the superior performance of KGE models in practice, we discover a deficiency in the expressiveness of some popular existing KGE models called \\textit{Z-paradox}. Motivated by the existence of Z-paradox, we propose a new KGE model called \\textit{MQuinE} that does not suffer from Z-paradox while preserves strong expressiveness to model various relation patterns including symmetric/asymmetric, inverse, 1-N/N-1/N-N, and composition relations with theoretical justification. Experiments on real-world knowledge bases indicate that Z-paradox indeed degrades the performance of existing KGE models, and can cause more than 20{\\%} accuracy drop on some challenging test samples. Our experiments further demonstrate that MQuinE can mitigate the negative impact of Z-paradox and outperform existing KGE models by a visible margin on link prediction tasks."}
{"Title": "Can Transformers Learn n-gram Language Models?", "Abstract": "Much theoretical work has described the ability of transformers to represent formal languages. However, linking theoretical results to empirical performance is not straightforward due to the complex interplay between the architecture, the learning algorithm, and training data. To test whether theoretical lower bounds imply \\textit{learnability} of formal languages, we turn to recent work relating transformers to $n$-gram language models (LMs). We study transformers{'} ability to learn random $n$-gram LMs of two kinds: ones with arbitrary next-symbol probabilities and ones where those are defined with shared parameters. We find that classic estimation techniques for $n$-gram LMs such as add-$\\lambda$ smoothing outperform transformers on the former, while transformers perform better on the latter, outperforming methods specifically designed to learn $n$-gram LMs."}
{"Title": "StablePrompt : Automatic Prompt Tuning using Reinforcement Learning for Large Language Model", "Abstract": "Finding appropriate prompts for the specific task has become an important issue as the usage of Large Language Models (LLM) have expanded. However, the variety of input-output formats complicate finding the prompts. Reinforcement Learning (RL) is a promising for prompt tuning due to its ability to incrementally produce better results through interaction with the environment. But its inherent training instability and environmental dependency make it difficult to use in practice. In this paper, we propose StablePrompt, a prompt tuning method based on RL. We formulate prompt tuning as RL problem between agent and target LLM, and introduce Adaptive Proximal Policy Optimization (APPO), an modified version of PPO for prompt tuning. APPO introduces an anchor model and updates it adaptively based on the training trajectory. Using this anchor model for the KL divergence term in PPO keeps the search space flexible and ensures training stability. We evaluate StablePrompt on various tasks, including text classification, question answering, and text generation. StablePrompt achieves State-of-The-Art performance across diverse tasks. We demonstrates that StablePrompt performs well across various types and sizes of LLMs. Furthermore, we present TTE-StablePrompt, an extension for generating input-dependent prompts. It outperforms StablePrompt in tasks that are hard to solve with a single prompt. This shows that StablePrompt is an extensible and stable RL framework for LLM."}
{"Title": "Summary of a Haystack: A Challenge to Long-Context LLMs and RAG Systems", "Abstract": "LLMs and RAG systems are now capable of handling millions of input tokens or more. However, evaluating the output quality of such systems on long-context tasks remains challenging, as tasks like Needle-in-a-Haystack lack complexity. In this work, we argue that summarization can play a central role in such evaluation. We design a procedure to synthesize Haystacks of documents, ensuring that specific insights repeat across documents. The {``}Summary of a Haystack{''} (SummHay) task then requires a system to process the Haystack and generate, given a query, a summary that identifies the relevant insights and precisely cites the source documents. Since we have precise knowledge of what insights should appear in a haystack summary and what documents should be cited, we implement a highly reproducible automatic evaluation that can score summaries on two aspects {--} Coverage and Citation. We generate Haystacks in two domains (conversation, news), and perform a large-scale evaluation of 10 LLMs and corresponding 50 RAG systems. Our findings indicate that SummHay is an open challenge for current systems, as even systems provided with an Oracle signal of document relevance lag our estimate of human performance (56{\\%}) by 10+ points on a Joint Score. Without a retriever, long-context LLMs like GPT-4o and Claude 3 Opus score below 20{\\%} on SummHay. We show SummHay can also be used to study enterprise RAG systems and position bias in long-context models. We hope future systems can equal and surpass human performance on SummHay."}
{"Title": "Multi-pass Decoding for Grammatical Error Correction", "Abstract": "Sequence-to-sequence (seq2seq) models achieve comparable or better grammatical error correction performance compared to sequence-to-edit (seq2edit) models. Seq2edit models normally iteratively refine the correction result, while seq2seq models decode only once without aware of subsequent tokens. Iteratively refining the correction results of seq2seq models via Multi-Pass Decoding (MPD) may lead to better performance. However, MPD increases the inference costs. Deleting or replacing corrections in previous rounds may lose useful information in the source input. We present an early-stop mechanism to alleviate the efficiency issue. To address the source information loss issue, we propose to merge the source input with the previous round correction result into one sequence. Experiments on the CoNLL-14 test set and BEA-19 test set show that our approach can lead to consistent and significant improvements over strong BART and T5 baselines (+1.80, +1.35, and +2.02 F0.5 for BART 12-2, large and T5 large respectively on CoNLL-14 and +2.99, +1.82, and +2.79 correspondingly on BEA-19), obtaining F0.5 scores of 68.41 and 75.36 on CoNLL-14 and BEA-19 respectively."}
{"Title": "Into the Unknown Unknowns: Engaged Human Learning through Participation in Language Model Agent Conversations", "Abstract": "While language model (LM)-powered chatbots and generative search engines excel at answering concrete queries, discovering information in the terrain of unknown unknowns remains challenging for users. To emulate the common educational scenario where children/students learn by listening to and participating in conversations of their parents/teachers, we create Collaborative STORM (Co-STORM). Unlike QA systems that require users to ask all the questions, Co-STORM lets users observe and occasionally steer the discourse among several LM agents. The agents ask questions on the user{'}s behalf, allowing the user to discover unknown unknowns serendipitously. To facilitate user interaction, Co-STORM assists users in tracking the discourse by organizing the uncovered information into a dynamic mind map, ultimately generating a comprehensive report as takeaways. For automatic evaluation, we construct the WildSeek dataset by collecting real information-seeking records with user goals. Co-STORM outperforms baseline methods on both discourse trace and report quality. In a further human evaluation, 70{\\%} of participants prefer Co-STORM over a search engine, and 78{\\%} favor it over a RAG chatbot."}
{"Title": "SCOI: Syntax-augmented Coverage-based In-context Example Selection for Machine Translation", "Abstract": "In-context learning (ICL) greatly improves the performance of large language models (LLMs) on various down-stream tasks, where the improvement highly depends on the quality of demonstrations. In this work, we introduce syntactic knowledge to select better in-context examples for machine translation (MT). We propose a new strategy, namely \\textbf{S}yntax-augmented \\textbf{CO}verage-based \\textbf{I}n-context example selection (SCOI), leveraging the deep syntactic structure beyond conventional word matching. Specifically, we measure the set-level syntactic coverage by computing the coverage of polynomial terms with the help of a simplified tree-to-polynomial algorithm, and lexical coverage using word overlap. Furthermore, we devise an alternate selection approach to combine both coverage measures, taking advantage of syntactic and lexical information. We conduct experiments with two multi-lingual LLMs on six translation directions. Empirical results show that our proposed SCOI obtains the highest average COMET score among all learning-free methods, indicating that combining syntactic and lexical coverage successfully helps to select better in-context examples for MT. Our code is available at https://github.com/JamyDon/SCOI."}
{"Title": "Efficient Temporal Extrapolation of Multimodal Large Language Models with Temporal Grounding Bridge", "Abstract": "Despite progress in multimodal large language models (MLLMs), the challenge of interpreting long-form videos in response to linguistic queries persists, largely due to the inefficiency in temporal grounding and limited pre-trained context window size. In this work, we introduce Temporal Grounding Bridge (TGB), a novel framework that bootstraps MLLMs with advanced temporal grounding capabilities and broadens their contextual scope. Our framework significantly enhances the temporal capabilities of current MLLMs through three key innovations: an efficient multi-span temporal grounding algorithm applied to low-dimension temporal features projected from flow; a multimodal length extrapolation training paradigm that utilizes low-dimension temporal features to extend the training context window size; and a bootstrapping framework that bridges our model with pluggable MLLMs without requiring annotation. We validate TGB across seven video benchmarks and demonstrate substantial performance improvements compared with prior MLLMs. Notably, our model, initially trained on sequences of four frames, effectively handles sequences up to 16 longer without sacrificing performance, highlighting its scalability and effectiveness in real-world applications. Our code is publicly available."}
{"Title": "STORYSUMM: Evaluating Faithfulness in Story Summarization", "Abstract": "Human evaluation has been the gold standard for checking faithfulness in abstractive summarization. However, with a challenging source domain like narrative, multiple annotators can agree a summary is faithful, while missing details that are obvious errors only once pointed out. We therefore introduce a new dataset, StorySumm, comprising LLM summaries of short stories with localized faithfulness labels and error explanations. This benchmark is for evaluation methods, testing whether a given method can detect challenging inconsistencies. Using this dataset, we first show that any one human annotation protocol is likely to miss inconsistencies, and we advocate for pursuing a range of methods when establishing ground truth for a summarization dataset. We finally test recent automatic metrics and find that none of them achieve more than 70{\\%} balanced accuracy on this task, demonstrating that it is a challenging benchmark for future work in faithfulness evaluation."}
{"Title": "MMoE: Enhancing Multimodal Models with Mixtures of Multimodal Interaction Experts", "Abstract": "Advances in multimodal models have greatly improved how interactions relevant to various tasks are modeled. Today{'}s multimodal models mainly focus on the correspondence between images and text, using this for tasks like image-text matching. However, this covers only a subset of real-world interactions. Novel interactions, such as sarcasm expressed through opposing spoken words and gestures or humor expressed through utterances and tone of voice, remain challenging. In this paper, we introduce an approach to enhance multimodal models, which we call Multimodal Mixtures of Experts (MMoE). The key idea in MMoE is to train separate expert models for each type of multimodal interaction, such as redundancy present in both modalities, uniqueness in one modality, or synergy that emerges when both modalities are fused. On a sarcasm detection task (MUStARD) and a humor detection task (URFUNNY), we obtain new state-of-the-art results. MMoE is also able to be applied to various types of models to gain improvement."}
{"Title": "OmAgent: A Multi-modal Agent Framework for Complex Video Understanding with Task Divide-and-Conquer", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have expanded their capabilities to multimodal contexts, including comprehensive video understanding. However, processing extensive videos such as 24-hour CCTV footage or full-length films presents significant challenges due to the vast data and processing demands. Traditional methods, like extracting key frames or converting frames to text, often result in substantial information loss. To address these shortcomings, we develop OmAgent, efficiently stores and retrieves relevant video frames for specific queries, preserving the detailed content of videos. Additionally, it features an Divide-and-Conquer Loop capable of autonomous reasoning, dynamically invoking APIs and tools to enhance query processing and accuracy. This approach ensures robust video understanding, significantly reducing information loss. Experimental results affirm OmAgent{'}s efficacy in handling various types of videos and complex tasks. Moreover, we have endowed it with greater autonomy and a robust tool-calling system, enabling it to accomplish even more intricate tasks."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Pre-Trained Generative Language Models with Question Attended Span Extraction on Machine Reading Comprehension", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "CommonIT: Commonality-Aware Instruction Tuning for Large Language Models via Data Partitions", "Abstract": "With instruction tuning, Large Language Models (LLMs) can enhance their ability to adhere to commands. Diverging from most works focusing on data mixing, our study concentrates on enhancing the model{'}s capabilities from the perspective of data sampling during training. Drawing inspiration from the human learning process, where it is generally easier to master solutions to similar topics through focused practice on a single type of topic, we introduce a novel instruction tuning strategy termed CommonIT: Commonality-aware Instruction Tuning. Specifically, we cluster instruction datasets into distinct groups with three proposed metrics Task, Embedding and Length). We ensure each training mini-batch, or {``}partition{''}, consists solely of data from a single group, which brings about both data randomness across mini-batches and intra-batch data similarity. Rigorous testing on LLaMa models demonstrates CommonIT{'}s effectiveness in enhancing the instruction-following capabilities of LLMs through IT datasets (FLAN, CoT, and Alpaca) and models (LLaMa2-7B, Qwen2-7B, LLaMa 13B, and BLOOM 7B). CommonIT consistently boosts an average improvement of 2.1{\\%} on the general domain (i.e., the average score of Knowledge, Reasoning, Multilinguality and Coding) with the Length metric, and 5.2{\\%} on the special domain (i.e., GSM, Openfunctions and Code) with the Task metric, and 3.8{\\%} on the specific tasks (i.e., MMLU) with the Embedding metric. Code is available at https://github.com/raojay7/CommonIT."}
{"Title": "ESC: Efficient Speech Coding with Cross-Scale Residual Vector Quantized Transformers", "Abstract": "Neural speech codecs aim to compress input signals into minimal bits while maintaining content quality in a low-latency manner. However, existing neural codecs often trade model complexity for reconstruction performance. These codecs primarily use convolutional blocks for feature transformation, which are not inherently suited for capturing the local redundancies in speech signals. To compensate, they require either adversarial discriminators or a large number of model parameters to enhance audio quality. In response to these challenges, we introduce the Efficient Speech Codec (ESC), a lightweight, parameter-efficient speech codec based on a cross-scale residual vector quantization scheme and transformers. Our model employs mirrored hierarchical window transformer blocks and performs step-wise decoding from coarse-to-fine feature representations. To enhance bitrate efficiency, we propose a novel combination of vector quantization techniques along with a pre-training paradigm. Extensive experiments demonstrate that ESC can achieve high-fidelity speech reconstruction with significantly lower model complexity, making it a promising alternative to existing convolutional audio codecs."}
{"Title": "Breaking ReLU Barrier: Generalized MoEfication for Dense Pretrained Models", "Abstract": "As the scale of language models (LMs) continues to grow, there is a heightened interest in reducing the inference cost associated with these models. Mixture-of-Experts (MoEs) present an efficient alternative to dense models, while the existing methods to convert pretrained dense models to MoEs is limited to ReLU-based models with natural sparsity. This paper introduces G-MoEfication, applicable to arbitrary dense models, where ReLU-based activation sparsity assumptions no longer hold. For generalizations, we encounter the dilemma of needing to zero-out deactivated experts, while also avoiding excessive zeroing-out to retain dense activation information. We publicly release our code and report results conducted with mBERT, SantaCoder-1.1B, Phi-2-2.7B, and Falcon-7B demonstrating the efficacy of our approach in general scenarios: from multitask to multilingual, from fine-tuning to zero-shot evaluation."}
{"Title": "Detecting Subtle Differences between Human and Model Languages Using Spectrum of Relative Likelihood", "Abstract": "Human and model-generated texts can be distinguished by examining the magnitude of likelihood in language. However, it is becoming increasingly difficult as language model{'}s capabilities of generating human-like texts keep evolving. This study provides a new perspective by using the relative likelihood values instead of absolute ones, and extracting useful features from the spectrum-view of likelihood for the human-model text detection task. We propose a detection procedure with two classification methods, supervised and heuristic-based, respectively, which results in competitive performances with previous zero-shot detection methods and a new state-of-the-art on short-text detection. Our method can also reveal subtle differences between human and model languages, which find theoretical roots in psycholinguistics studies."}
{"Title": "Optimizing Language Models with Fair and Stable Reward Composition in Reinforcement Learning", "Abstract": "Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) and AI-generated feedback (RLAIF) have become prominent techniques that significantly enhance the functionality of pre-trained language models (LMs). These methods harness feedback, sourced either from humans or AI, as direct rewards or to shape reward models that steer LM optimization. Nonetheless, the effective integration of rewards from diverse sources presents a significant challenge due to their disparate characteristics. To address this, recent research has developed algorithms incorporating strategies such as weighting, ranking, and constraining to handle this complexity. Despite these innovations, a bias toward disproportionately high rewards can still skew the reinforcement learning process and negatively impact LM performance. This paper explores a methodology for reward composition that enables simultaneous improvements in LMs across multiple dimensions. Inspired by fairness theory, we introduce a training algorithm that aims to reduce disparity and enhance stability among various rewards. Our method treats the aggregate reward as a dynamic weighted sum of individual rewards, with alternating updates to the weights and model parameters. For efficient and straightforward implementation, we employ an estimation technique rooted in the mirror descent method for weight updates, eliminating the need for gradient computations. The empirical results under various types of rewards across a wide range of scenarios demonstrate the effectiveness of our method."}
{"Title": "Fine-grained Pluggable Gradient Ascent for Knowledge Unlearning in Language Models", "Abstract": "Pre-trained language models acquire knowledge from vast amounts of text data, which can inadvertently contain sensitive information. To mitigate the presence of undesirable knowledge, the task of knowledge unlearning becomes crucial for language models. Previous research relies on gradient ascent methods to achieve knowledge unlearning, which is simple and effective. However, this approach calculates all the gradients of tokens in the sequence, potentially compromising the general ability of language models. To overcome this limitation, we propose an adaptive objective that calculates gradients with fine-grained control specifically targeting sensitive tokens. Our adaptive objective is pluggable, ensuring simplicity and enabling extension to the regularization-based framework that utilizes non-target data or other models to preserve general ability. Through extensive experiments targeting the removal of typical sensitive data, we demonstrate that our proposed method enhances the general ability of language models while achieving knowledge unlearning. Additionally, it demonstrates the capability to adapt to behavior alignment, eliminating all the undesirable knowledge within a specific domain."}
{"Title": "ARM: An Alignment-and-Replacement Module for Chinese Spelling Check Based on LLMs", "Abstract": "Chinese Spelling Check (CSC) aims to identify and correct spelling errors in Chinese texts, where enhanced semantic understanding of a sentence can significantly improve correction accuracy. Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional mastery of world knowledge and semantic understanding, rendering them more robust against spelling errors. However, the application of LLMs in CSC is a double-edged sword, as they tend to unnecessarily alter sentence length and modify rare but correctly used phrases. In this paper, by leveraging the capabilities of LLMs while mitigating their limitations, we propose a novel plug-and-play Alignment-and-Replacement Module ARM that enhances the performance of existing CSC models and without the need for retraining or fine-tuning. Experiment results and analysis on three benchmark datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and competitiveness of the proposed module."}
{"Title": "On the In-context Generation of Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are found to have the ability of in-context generation (ICG): when they are fed with an in-context prompt concatenating a few somehow similar examples, they can implicitly recognize the pattern of them and then complete the prompt in the same pattern. ICG is curious, since language models are usually not explicitly trained in the same way as the in-context prompt, and the distribution of examples in the prompt differs from that of sequences in the pretrained corpora. This paper provides a systematic study of the ICG ability of language models, covering discussions about its source and influential factors, in the view of both theory and empirical experiments. Concretely, we first propose a plausible latent variable model to model the distribution of the pretrained corpora, and then formalize ICG as a problem of next topic prediction. With this framework, we can prove that the repetition nature of a few topics ensures the ICG ability on them theoretically. Then, we use this controllable pretrained distribution to generate several medium-scale synthetic datasets (token scale: 2.1B-3.9B) and experiment with different settings of Transformer architectures (parameter scale: 4M-234M). Our experimental results further offer insights into how the data and model architectures influence ICG."}
{"Title": "Atomic Inference for NLI with Generated Facts as Atoms", "Abstract": "With recent advances, neural models can achieve human-level performance on various natural language tasks. However, there are no guarantees that any explanations from these models are faithful, i.e. that they reflect the inner workings of the model. Atomic inference overcomes this issue, providing interpretable and faithful model decisions. This approach involves making predictions for different components (or atoms) of an instance, before using interpretable and deterministic rules to derive the overall prediction based on the individual atom-level predictions. We investigate the effectiveness of using LLM-generated facts as atoms, decomposing Natural Language Inference premises into lists of facts. While directly using generated facts in atomic inference systems can result in worse performance, with 1) a multi-stage fact generation process, and 2) a training regime that incorporates the facts, our fact-based method outperforms other approaches."}
{"Title": "Towards Robust Speech Representation Learning for Thousands of Languages", "Abstract": "Self-supervised learning (SSL) has helped extend speech technologies to more languages by reducing the need for labeled data. However, models are still far from supporting the world{'}s 7000+ languages. We propose XEUS, a Cross-lingual Encoder for Universal Speech, trained on over 1 million hours of data across 4057 languages, extending the language coverage of SSL models 4-fold. We combine 1 million hours of speech from existing publicly accessible corpora with a newly created corpus of 7400+ hours from 4057 languages, which will be publicly released. To handle the diverse conditions of multilingual speech data, we augment the typical SSL masked prediction approach with a novel dereverberation objective, increasing robustness. We evaluate XEUS on several benchmarks, and show that it consistently outperforms or achieves comparable results to state-of-the-art (SOTA) SSL models across a variety of tasks. XEUS sets a new SOTA on the ML-SUPERB benchmark: it outperforms MMS 1B and w2v-BERT 2.0 v2 by 0.8{\\%} and 4.4{\\%} respectively, despite having less parameters or pre-training data. Checkpoints, code, and data are found in https://www.wavlab.org/activities/2024/xeus/."}
{"Title": "I Learn Better If You Speak My Language: Understanding the Superior Performance of Fine-Tuning Large Language Models with LLM-Generated Responses", "Abstract": "This paper explores an intriguing observation: fine-tuning a large language model (LLM) with responses generated by a LLM often yields better results than using responses generated by humans, particularly in reasoning tasks. We conduct an in-depth investigation to understand why this occurs. Contrary to the common belief that these instances is due to the more detailed nature of LLM-generated content, our study identifies another contributing factor: an LLM is inherently more {``}familiar{''} with LLM generated responses. This familiarity is evidenced by lower perplexity before fine-tuning. We design a series of experiments to understand the impact of the {``}familiarity{''} and our conclusion reveals that this {``}familiarity{''} significantly impacts learning performance. Training with LLM-generated responses not only enhances performance but also helps maintain the model{'}s capabilities in other reasoning tasks after fine-tuning on a specific task."}
{"Title": "PreAlign: Boosting Cross-Lingual Transfer by Early Establishment of Multilingual Alignment", "Abstract": "Large language models demonstrate reasonable multilingual abilities, despite predominantly English-centric pretraining. However, the spontaneous multilingual alignment in these models is shown to be weak, leading to unsatisfactory cross-lingual transfer and knowledge sharing. Previous works attempt to address this issue by explicitly injecting multilingual alignment information during or after pretraining. Thus for the early stage in pretraining, the alignment is weak for sharing information or knowledge across languages. In this paper, we propose PreAlign, a framework that establishes multilingual alignment prior to language model pretraining. PreAlign injects multilingual alignment by initializing the model to generate similar representations of aligned words and preserves this alignment using a code-switching strategy during pretraining. Extensive experiments in a synthetic English to English-Clone setting demonstrate that PreAlign significantly outperforms standard multilingual joint training in language modeling, zero-shot cross-lingual transfer, and cross-lingual knowledge application. Further experiments in real-world scenarios further validate PreAlign{'}s effectiveness across various model sizes."}
{"Title": "An image speaks a thousand words, but can everyone listen? On image transcreation for cultural relevance", "Abstract": "Given the rise of multimedia content, human translators increasingly focus on culturally adapting not only words but also other modalities such as images to convey the same meaning. While several applications stand to benefit from this, machine translation systems remain confined to dealing with language in speech and text. In this work, we introduce a new task of translating images to make them culturally relevant. First, we build three pipelines comprising state-of-the-art generative models to do the task. Next, we build a two-part evaluation dataset {--} (i) concept: comprising 600 images that are cross-culturally coherent, focusing on a single concept per image; and (ii) application: comprising 100 images curated from real-world applications. We conduct a multi-faceted human evaluation of translated images to assess for cultural relevance and meaning preservation. We find that as of today, image-editing models fail at this task, but can be improved by leveraging LLMs and retrievers in the loop. Best pipelines can only translate 5{\\%} of images for some countries in the easier concept dataset and no translation is successful for some countries in the application dataset, highlighting the challenging nature of the task. Our project webpage is here: https://machine-transcreation.github.io/image-transcreation and our code, data and model outputs can be found here: https://github.com/simran-khanuja/image-transcreation."}
{"Title": "When Parts Are Greater Than Sums: Individual LLM Components Can Outperform Full Models", "Abstract": "This paper studies in-context learning by decomposing the output of large language models into the individual contributions of attention heads and MLPs (components). We observe curious components: good-performing ones that individually do well on a classification task, even when the model performs poorly; bad-performing ones that do much worse than chance; and label-biased components that always predict the same label. We find that component accuracies are well-correlated across different demonstration sets and perturbations of prompt templates. Based on our findings, we propose component reweighting, which learns to linearly re-scale the component activations from a few labeled examples. Given 24 labeled examples, our method improves by an average of 6.0{\\%} accuracy points over 24-shot ICL across 8 tasks on Llama-2-7B. Overall, this paper both enriches our understanding of ICL and provides a practical method for improvement by examining model internals."}
{"Title": "Multimodal Clickbait Detection by De-confounding Biases Using Causal Representation Inference", "Abstract": "This paper focuses on detecting clickbait posts on the Web. These posts often use eye-catching disinformation in mixed modalities to mislead users to click for profit. That affects the user experience and thus would be blocked by content provider. To escape detection, malicious creators use tricks to add some irrelevant non-bait content into bait posts, dressing them up as legal to fool the detector. This content often has biased relations with non-bait labels, yet traditional detectors tend to make predictions based on simple co-occurrence rather than grasping inherent factors that lead to malicious behavior. This spurious bias would easily cause misjudgments. To address this problem, we propose a new debiased method based on causal inference. We first employ a set of features in multiple modalities to characterize the posts. Considering these features are often mixed up with unknown biases, we then disentangle three kinds of latent factors from them, including the invariant factor that indicates intrinsic bait intention; the causal factor which reflects deceptive patterns in a certain scenario, and non-causal noise. By eliminating the noise that causes bias, we can use invariant and causal factors to build a robust model with good generalization ability. Experiments on three popular datasets show the effectiveness of our approach."}
{"Title": "Matryoshka-Adaptor: Unsupervised and Supervised Tuning for Smaller Embedding Dimensions", "Abstract": "Embeddings from Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as critical components in various applications, particularly for information retrieval. While high-dimensional embeddings generally demonstrate superior performance as they contain more salient information, their practical application is frequently hindered by elevated computational latency and the associated higher cost. To address these challenges, we propose Matryoshka-Adaptor, a novel tuning framework designed for the customization of LLM embeddings. Matryoshka-Adaptor facilitates substantial dimensionality reduction while maintaining comparable performance levels, thereby achieving a significant enhancement in computational efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Our framework directly modifies the embeddings from pre-trained LLMs which is designed to be seamlessly integrated with any LLM architecture, encompassing those accessible exclusively through black-box APIs. Also, it exhibits efficacy in both unsupervised and supervised learning settings. A rigorous evaluation conducted across a diverse corpus of English, multilingual, and multimodal datasets consistently reveals substantial gains with Matryoshka-Adaptor. Notably, with Google and OpenAI Embedding APIs, Matryoshka-Adaptor achieves a reduction in dimensionality ranging from two- to twelve-fold without compromising performance across multiple BEIR datasets."}
{"Title": "KNN-Instruct: Automatic Instruction Construction with K Nearest Neighbor Deduction", "Abstract": "Supervised fine-tuning (SFT) is a critical procedure for aligning large language models. Despite its efficiency, the construction of SFT data often struggles with issues of quality, diversity, and scalability. Many existing methods, inspired by the Self-Instruct framework, typically generate synthetic instructions by prompting aligned proprietary models like ChatGPT. However, such process suffers from stale distribution, resulting in instructions that are merely trivial variations of existing ones. In this paper, we introduce a novel bootstrapping approach termed KNN-Instruct, which incorporates KNN deduction to produce meaningful new instructions by effectively summarizing and learning from similar existing ones. We conduct an economical controlled experiment to preliminarily validate its effectiveness. In the further experiment, we construct a high-quality SFT dataset named KNN-Inst-12k*. Applying the dataset to Qwen-2-7B, we get a MT-Bench score of 7.64, which outperforms all 7B models on the LMSYS leaderboard, including Starling-LM-7B (7.48), OpenChat-3.5 (7.06) and Zephyr-7B-beta (6.53). Our code and data are available at https://github.com/CrossmodalGroup/KNN-Instruct/."}
{"Title": "Contextualized Sequence Likelihood: Enhanced Confidence Scores for Natural Language Generation", "Abstract": "The advent of large language models (LLMs) has dramatically advanced the state-of-the-art in numerous natural language generation tasks. For LLMs to be applied reliably, it is essential to have an accurate measure of their confidence. Currently, the most commonly used confidence score function is the likelihood of the generated sequence, which, however, conflates semantic and syntactic components. For instance, in question-answering (QA) tasks, an awkward phrasing of the correct answer might result in a lower probability prediction. Additionally, different tokens should be weighted differently depending on the context. In this work, we propose enhancing the predicted sequence probability by assigning different weights to various tokens using attention values elicited from the base LLM. By employing a validation set, we can identify the relevant attention heads, thereby significantly improving the reliability of the vanilla sequence probability confidence measure. We refer to this new score as the Contextualized Sequence Likelihood (CSL). CSL is easy to implement, fast to compute, and offers considerable potential for further improvement with task-specific prompts. Across several QA datasets and a diverse array of LLMs, CSL has demonstrated significantly higher reliability than state-of-the-art baselines in predicting generation quality, as measured by the AUROC or AUARC."}
{"Title": "MixGR: Enhancing Retriever Generalization for Scientific Domain through Complementary Granularity", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "CARER - ClinicAl Reasoning-Enhanced Representation for Temporal Health Risk Prediction", "Abstract": "The increasing availability of multimodal data from electronic health records (EHR) has paved the way for deep learning methods to improve diagnosis accuracy. However, deep learning models are data-driven, requiring large-scale datasets to achieve high generalizability. Inspired by how human experts leverage reasoning for medical diagnosis, we propose CARER, a novel health risk prediction framework, that enhances deep learning models with clinical rationales derived from medically proficient Large Language Models (LLMs). In addition, we provide a cross-view alignment loss which aligns the {``}local{''} view from the patient{'}s health status with the {``}global{''} view from the external LLM{'}s clinical reasoning to boost the mutual feature learning. Through extensive experiments on two predictive tasks using two popular EHR datasets, our CARER{'}s significantly exceeds the performance of state-of-the-art models by up to 11.2{\\%}, especially in improving data efficiency and generalizability. Our code is available at https://github.com/tuandung2812/CARER-EMNLP-2024"}
{"Title": "\u201cIn-Dialogues We Learn\u201d: Towards Personalized Dialogue Without Pre-defined Profiles through In-Dialogue Learning", "Abstract": "Personalized dialogue systems have gained significant attention in recent years for their ability to generate responses in alignment with different personas. However, most existing approaches rely on pre-defined personal profiles, which are not only time-consuming and labor-intensive to create but also lack flexibility. We propose In-Dialogue Learning (IDL), a fine-tuning framework that enhances the ability of pre-trained large language models to leverage dialogue history to characterize persona for personalized dialogue generation tasks without pre-defined profiles. Our experiments on three datasets demonstrate that IDL brings substantial improvements, with BLEU and ROUGE scores increasing by up to 200{\\%} and 247{\\%}, respectively. Additionally, the results of human evaluations further validate the efficacy of our proposed method."}
{"Title": "Encourage or Inhibit Monosemanticity? Revisit Monosemanticity from a Feature Decorrelation Perspective", "Abstract": "To better interpret the intrinsic mechanism of large language models (LLMs), recent studies focus on monosemanticity on its basic units. A monosemantic neuron is dedicated to a single and specific concept, which forms a one-to-one correlation between neurons and concepts. Despite extensive research in monosemanticity probing, it remains unclear whether monosemanticity is beneficial or harmful to model capacity. To explore this question, we revisit monosemanticity from the feature decorrelation perspective and advocate for its encouragement. We experimentally observe that the current conclusion by (CITATION), which suggests that decreasing monosemanticity enhances model performance, does not hold when the model changes. Instead, we demonstrate that monosemanticity consistently exhibits a positive correlation with model capacity, in the preference alignment process. Consequently, we apply feature correlation as a proxy for monosemanticity and incorporate a feature decorrelation regularizer into the dynamic preference optimization process. The experiments show that our method not only enhances representation diversity and activation sparsity but also improves preference alignment performance."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Language Model Factuality via Activation-Based Confidence Calibration and Guided Decoding", "Abstract": "Calibrating language models (LMs) aligns their generation confidence with the actual likelihood of answer correctness, which can inform users about LMs{'} reliability and mitigate hallucinated content. However, prior calibration methods, such as self-consistency-based and logit-based approaches, are either limited in inference-time efficiency or fall short of providing informative signals. Moreover, simply filtering out low-confidence responses reduces the LM{'}s helpfulness when the answers are correct. Therefore, effectively using calibration techniques to enhance an LM{'}s factuality remains an unsolved challenge. In this paper, we first propose an activation-based calibration method, ActCab, which trains a linear layer on top of the LM{'}s last-layer activations that can better capture the representations of knowledge. Built on top of ActCab, we further propose CoDec, a confidence-guided decoding strategy to elicit truthful answers with high confidence from LMs. By evaluating on five popular QA benchmarks, ActCab achieves superior calibration performance than all competitive baselines, e.g., by reducing the average expected calibration error (ECE) score by up to 39{\\%}. Further experiments on CoDec show consistent improvements in several LMs{'} factuality on challenging QA datasets, such as TruthfulQA, highlighting the value of confidence signals in enhancing the factuality."}
{"Title": "Reasoning Robustness of LLMs to Adversarial Typographical Errors", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "InferAligner: Inference-Time Alignment for Harmlessness through Cross-Model Guidance", "Abstract": "As large language models (LLMs) rapidly evolve, they are increasingly being customized through fine-tuning to suit the specific needs of various applications. A critical aspect of this advancement is the alignment process, which ensures that these models perform tasks in ways that align with human values and expectations. Current alignment methods, such as direct preference optimization (DPO) and reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), focus primarily on alignment during training phase. However, these methods often involve complex and resource-intensive training processes, posing significant challenge for their implementation. Therefore, we propose \\textbf{InferAligner}, a simple yet effective method for harmlessness alignment during inference phase. InferAligner decouples harmlessness from helpfulness. During the training phase, it focuses solely on enhancing the target model{'}s capabilities on downstream tasks. In the inference phase, it utilizes safety steering vectors extracted from the aligned model to guide the target model towards harmlessness alignment. Experimental results show that our method can be very effectively applied to domain-specific models in finance, medicine, and mathematics, as well as to multimodal large language models (MLLMs) such as LLaVA. It significantly diminishes the attack success rate (ASR) of both harmful instructions and jailbreak instructions, while maintaining almost unchanged performance in downstream tasks."}
{"Title": "Belief Revision: The Adaptability of Large Language Models Reasoning", "Abstract": "The capability to reason from text is crucial for real-world NLP applications. Real-world scenarios often involve incomplete or evolving data. In response, individuals update their beliefs and understandings accordingly. However, most existing evaluations assume that language models (LMs) operate with consistent information. We introduce Belief-R, a new dataset designed to test LMs{'} belief revision ability when presented with new evidence. Inspired by how humans suppress prior inferences, this task assesses LMs within the newly proposed delta reasoning ($\\Delta R$) framework. Belief-R features sequences of premises designed to simulate scenarios where additional information could necessitate prior conclusions drawn by LMs. We evaluate {\\textasciitilde}30 LMs across diverse prompting strategies and found that LMs generally struggle to appropriately revise their beliefs in response to new information. Further, models adept at updating often underperformed in scenarios without necessary updates, highlighting a critical trade-off. These insights underscore the importance of improving LMs{'} adaptiveness to changing information, a step toward more reliable AI systems."}
{"Title": "Fisher Information-based Efficient Curriculum Federated Learning with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "As a promising paradigm to collaboratively train models with decentralized data, Federated Learning (FL) can be exploited to fine-tune Large Language Models (LLMs). While LLMs correspond to huge size, the scale of the training data significantly increases, which leads to tremendous amounts of computation and communication costs. The training data is generally non-Independent and Identically Distributed (non-IID), which requires adaptive data processing within each device. Although Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) can significantly reduce the scale of parameters to update in the fine-tuning process, it still takes unaffordable time to transfer the low-rank parameters of all the layers in LLMs. In this paper, we propose a Fisher Information-based Efficient Curriculum Federated Learning framework (FibecFed) with two novel methods, i.e., adaptive federated curriculum learning and efficient sparse parameter update. First, we propose a fisher information-based method to adaptively sample data within each device to improve the effectiveness of the FL fine-tuning process. Second, we dynamically select the proper layers for global aggregation and sparse parameters for local update with LoRA so as to improve the efficiency of the FL fine-tuning process. Extensive experimental results based on 10 datasets demonstrate that FibecFed yields excellent performance (up to 45.35{\\%} in terms of accuracy) and superb fine-tuning speed (up to 98.61{\\%} faster) compared with 17 baseline approaches)."}
{"Title": "Bio-RFX: Refining Biomedical Extraction via Advanced Relation Classification and Structural Constraints", "Abstract": "The ever-growing biomedical publications magnify the challenge of extracting structured data from unstructured texts. This task involves two components: biomedical entity identification (Named Entity Recognition, NER) and their interrelation determination (Relation Extraction, RE). However, existing methods often neglect unique features of the biomedical literature, such as ambiguous entities, nested proper nouns, and overlapping relation triplets, and underutilize prior knowledge, leading to an intolerable performance decline in the biomedical domain, especially with limited annotated training data. In this paper, we propose the Biomedical Relation-First eXtraction (Bio-RFX) model by leveraging sentence-level relation classification before entity extraction to tackle entity ambiguity. Moreover, we exploit structural constraints between entities and relations to guide the model{'}s hypothesis space, enhancing extraction performance across different training scenarios. Comprehensive experimental results on biomedical datasets show that Bio-RFX achieves significant improvements on both NER and RE tasks. Even under the low-resource training scenarios, it outperforms all baselines in NER and has highly competitive performance compared to the state-of-the-art fine-tuned baselines in RE."}
{"Title": "Decoding Matters: Addressing Amplification Bias and Homogeneity Issue in Recommendations for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Adapting Large Language Models (LLMs) for recommendation requires careful consideration of the decoding process, given the inherent differences between generating items and natural language. Existing approaches often directly apply LLMs{'} original decoding methods. However, we find these methods encounter significant challenges: 1) amplification bias{---}where standard length normalization inflates scores for items containing tokens with generation probabilities close to 1 (termed ghost tokens), and 2) homogeneity issue{---}generating multiple similar or repetitive items for a user. To tackle these challenges, we introduce a new decoding approach named Debiasing-Diversifying Decoding ($D^3$). $D^3$ disables length normalization for ghost tokens to alleviate amplification bias, and it incorporates a text-free assistant model to encourage tokens less frequently generated by LLMs for counteracting recommendation homogeneity. Extensive experiments on real-world datasets demonstrate the method{'}s effectiveness in enhancing accuracy and diversity."}
{"Title": "LLMs Are Prone to Fallacies in Causal Inference", "Abstract": "Recent work shows that causal facts can be effectively extracted from LLMs through prompting, facilitating the creation of causal graphs for causal inference tasks. However, it is unclear if this success is limited to explicitly-mentioned causal facts in the pretraining data which the model can memorize. Thus, this work investigates: Can LLMs infer causal relations from other relational data in text? To disentangle the role of memorized causal facts vs inferred causal relations, we finetune LLMs on synthetic data containing temporal, spatial and counterfactual relations, and measure whether the LLM can then infer causal relations. We find that: (a) LLMs are susceptible to inferring causal relations from the order of two entity mentions in text (e.g. X mentioned before Y implies X causes Y); (b) if the order is randomized, LLMs still suffer from the post hoc fallacy, i.e. X occurs before Y (temporal relation) implies X causes Y. We also find that while LLMs can correctly deduce the absence of causal relations from temporal and spatial relations, they have difficulty inferring causal relations from counterfactuals, questioning their understanding of causality."}
{"Title": "Roleplay-doh: Enabling Domain-Experts to Create LLM-simulated Patients via Eliciting and Adhering to Principles", "Abstract": "Recent works leverage LLMs to roleplay realistic social scenarios, aiding novices in practicing their social skills. However, simulating sensitive interactions, such as in the domain of mental health, is challenging. Privacy concerns restrict data access, and collecting expert feedback, although vital, is laborious. To address this, we develop Roleplay-doh, a novel human-LLM collaboration pipeline that elicits qualitative feedback from a domain-expert, which is transformed into a set of principles, or natural language rules, that govern an LLM-prompted roleplay. We apply this pipeline to enable senior mental health supporters to create customized AI patients as simulated practice partners for novice counselors. After uncovering issues with basic GPT-4 simulations not adhering to expert-defined principles, we also introduce a novel principle-adherence prompting pipeline which shows a 30{\\%} improvement in response quality and principle following for the downstream task. Through a user study with 25 counseling experts, we demonstrate that the pipeline makes it easy and effective to create AI patients that more faithfully resemble real patients, as judged by both creators and third-party counselors. We provide access to the code and data on our project website: https://roleplay-doh.github.io/."}
{"Title": "The Lou Dataset - Exploring the Impact of Gender-Fair Language in German Text Classification", "Abstract": "Gender-fair language, an evolving linguistic variation in German, fosters inclusion by addressing all genders or using neutral forms. However, there is a notable lack of resources to assess the impact of this language shift on language models (LMs) might not been trained on examples of this variation. Addressing this gap, we present Lou, the first dataset providing high-quality reformulations for German text classification covering seven tasks, like stance detection and toxicity classification. We evaluate 16 mono- and multi-lingual LMs and find substantial label flips, reduced prediction certainty, and significantly altered attention patterns. However, existing evaluations remain valid, as LM rankings are consistent across original and reformulated instances. Our study provides initial insights into the impact of gender-fair language on classification for German. However, these findings are likely transferable to other languages, as we found consistent patterns in multi-lingual and English LMs."}
{"Title": "When Generative Adversarial Networks Meet Sequence Labeling Challenges", "Abstract": "The current framework for sequence labeling encompasses a feature extractor and a sequence tagger. This study introduces a unified framework named SLGAN, which harnesses the capabilities of Generative Adversarial Networks to address the challenges associated with Sequence Labeling tasks. SLGAN not only mitigates the limitation of GANs in backpropagating loss to discrete data but also exhibits strong adaptability to various sequence labeling tasks. Unlike traditional GANs, the discriminator within SLGAN does not discriminate whether data originates from the discriminator or the generator; instead, it focuses on predicting the correctness of each tag within the tag sequence. We conducted evaluations on six different tasks spanning four languages, including Chinese, Japanese, and Korean Word Segmentation, Chinese and English Named Entity Recognition, and Chinese Part-of-Speech Tagging. Our experimental results illustrate that SLGAN represents a versatile and highly effective solution, consistently achieving state-of-the-art or competitive performance results, irrespective of the specific task or language under consideration."}
{"Title": "Evidence-Focused Fact Summarization for Knowledge-Augmented Zero-Shot Question Answering", "Abstract": "Recent studies have investigated utilizing Knowledge Graphs (KGs) to enhance Quesetion Answering (QA) performance of Large Language Models (LLMs), yet structured KG verbalization remains challenging. Existing methods, like concatenation or free-form textual conversion of triples, have limitations, including duplicated entities or relations, reduced evidence density, and failure to highlight crucial evidence. To address these issues, we propose EFSum, an Evidence-focused Fact Summarization framework for enhanced QA with knowledge-augmented LLMs. We optimize an LLM as a fact summarizer through distillation and preference alignment. Our extensive expeirments show that EFSum improves LLM{'}s zero-shot QA performance with its helpful and faithful summaries, especially when noisy facts are retrieved."}
{"Title": "Speechworthy Instruction-tuned Language Models", "Abstract": "Current instruction-tuned language models are exclusively trained with textual preference data and thus may not be aligned to the unique requirements of other modalities, such as speech. To better align language models with the speech domain, we explore i) prompting strategies based on radio-industry best practices and ii) preference learning using a novel speech-based preference data of 20K samples collected by annotators who listen to response pairs. Both human and automatic evaluation show that both prompting and preference learning increase the speech-suitability of popular instruction tuned LLMs. More interestingly, we show that these methods are additive; combining them achieves the best win rates in head-to-head comparison, resulting in responses that are preferred or tied to the base model in 76.2{\\%} of comparisons on average. Lastly, we share lexical, syntactical, and qualitative analyses that elicit how our studied methods differ with baselines in generating more speech-suitable responses."}
{"Title": "Data, Data Everywhere: A Guide for Pretraining Dataset Construction", "Abstract": "The impressive capabilities of recent language models can be largely attributed to the multi-trillion token pretraining datasets that they are trained on. However, model developers fail to disclose their construction methodology which has lead to a lack of open information on how to develop effective pretraining sets. To address this issue, we perform the first systematic study across the entire pipeline of pretraining set construction. First, we run ablations on existing techniques for pretraining set development to identify which methods translate to the largest gains in model accuracy on downstream evaluations. Then, we categorize the most widely used data source, web crawl snapshots, across the attributes of toxicity, quality, type of speech, and domain. Finally, we show how such attribute information can be used to further refine and improve the quality of a pretraining set. These findings constitute an actionable set of steps that practitioners can use to develop high quality pretraining sets."}
{"Title": "Fine-Tuning and Prompt Optimization: Two Great Steps that Work Better Together", "Abstract": "Natural Language Processing (NLP) systems are increasingly taking the form of sophisticated modular pipelines, e.g., Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), where each module may involve a distinct Language Model (LM) and an associated prompt template. These compound systems often lack intermediate labels or gradient flow to optimize each module, making their end-to-end optimization challenging. Here we seek strategies to optimize both the module-level LM weights and the associated prompt templates of such systems to maximize a downstream task metric. We propose for the first time combining the weight and prompt optimization strategies to optimize a modular LM pipeline by alternating between the two to get the same LM to teach itself. In experiments with multi-hop QA, mathematical reasoning, and feature-based classification using mistral-7b, llama-2-7b, and llama-3-8b, these BetterTogether strategies optimizing the weights and prompts of a pipeline together outperform directly optimizing weights alone and prompts alone by up to 60{\\%} and 6{\\%}, respectively, on average across LMs and tasks. Our BetterTogether optimizer is released in DSPy at [http://dspy.ai](http://dspy.ai)."}
{"Title": "Demystifying Verbatim Memorization in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) frequently memorize long sequences verbatim, often with serious legal and privacy implications. Much prior work has studied such verbatim memorization using observational data. To complement such work, we develop a framework to study verbatim memorization in a controlled setting by continuing pre-training from Pythia checkpoints with injected sequences. We find that (1) non-trivial amounts of repetition are necessary for verbatim memorization to happen; (2) later (and presumably better) checkpoints are more likely to verbatim memorize sequences, even for out-of-distribution sequences; (3) the generation of memorized sequences is triggered by distributed model states that encode high-level features and makes important use of general language modeling capabilities. Guided by these insights, we develop stress tests to evaluate unlearning methods and find they often fail to remove the verbatim memorized information, while also degrading the LM. Overall, these findings challenge the hypothesis that verbatim memorization stems from specific model weights or mechanisms. Rather, verbatim memorization is intertwined with the LM{'}s general capabilities and thus will be very difficult to isolate and suppress without degrading model quality."}
{"Title": "AmbigNLG: Addressing Task Ambiguity in Instruction for NLG", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Distributional Properties of Subword Regularization", "Abstract": "Subword regularization, used widely in NLP, improves model performance by reducing the dependency on exact tokenizations, augmenting the training corpus, and exposing the model to more unique contexts during training. BPE and MaxMatch, two popular subword tokenization schemes, have stochastic dropout regularization variants. However, there has not been an analysis of the distributions formed by them.We show that these stochastic variants are heavily biased towards a small set of tokenizations per word. If the benefits of subword regularization are as mentioned, we hypothesize that biasedness artificially limits the effectiveness of these schemes. Thus, we propose an algorithm to uniformly sample tokenizations that we use as a drop-in replacement for the stochastic aspects of existing tokenizers, and find that it improves machine translation quality."}
{"Title": "DataTales: A Benchmark for Real-World Intelligent Data Narration", "Abstract": "We introduce DataTales, a novel benchmark designed to assess the proficiency of language models in data narration, a task crucial for transforming complex tabular data into accessible narratives. Existing benchmarks often fall short in capturing the requisite analytical complexity for practical applications. DataTales addresses this gap by offering 4.9k financial reports paired with corresponding market data, showcasing the demand for models to create clear narratives and analyze large datasets while understanding specialized terminology in the field. Our findings highlights the significant challenge that language models face in achieving the necessary precision and analytical depth for proficient data narration, suggesting promising avenues for future model development and evaluation methodologies."}
{"Title": "Towards Fast Multilingual LLM Inference: Speculative Decoding and Specialized Drafters", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized natural language processing and broadened their applicability across diverse commercial applications. However, the deployment of these models is constrained by high inference time in multilingual settings. To mitigate this challenge, this paper explores a training recipe of an assistant model in speculative decoding, which are leveraged to draft and-then its future tokens are verified by the target LLM. We show that language-specific draft models, optimized through a targeted pretrain-and-finetune strategy, substantially brings a speedup of inference time compared to the previous methods. We validate these models across various languages in inference time, out-of-domain speedup, and GPT-4o evaluation."}
{"Title": "GlobeSumm: A Challenging Benchmark Towards Unifying Multi-lingual, Cross-lingual and Multi-document News Summarization", "Abstract": "News summarization in today{'}s global scene can be daunting with its flood of multilingual content and varied viewpoints from different sources. However, current studies often neglect such real-world scenarios as they tend to focus solely on either single-language or single-document tasks. To bridge this gap, we aim to unify Multi-lingual, Cross-lingual and Multi-document Summarization into a novel task, i.e., MCMS, which encapsulates the real-world requirements all-in-one. Nevertheless, the lack of a benchmark inhibits researchers from adequately studying this invaluable problem. To tackle this, we have meticulously constructed the GLOBESUMM dataset by first collecting a wealth of multilingual news reports and restructuring them into event-centric format. Additionally, we introduce the method of protocol-guided prompting for high-quality and cost-effective reference annotation. In MCMS, we also highlight the challenge of conflicts between news reports, in addition to the issues of redundancies and omissions, further enhancing the complexity of GLOBESUMM. Through extensive experimental analysis, we validate the quality of our dataset and elucidate the inherent challenges of the task. We firmly believe that GLOBESUMM, given its challenging nature, will greatly contribute to the multilingual communities and the evaluation of LLMs."}
{"Title": "Breaking the Curse of Multilinguality with Cross-lingual Expert Language Models", "Abstract": "Despite their popularity in non-English NLP, multilingual language models often underperform monolingual ones due to inter-language competition for model parameters. We propose Cross-lingual Expert Language Models (X-ELM), which mitigate this competition by independently training language models on subsets of the multilingual corpus. This process specializes X-ELMs to different languages while remaining effective as a multilingual ensemble. Our experiments show that when given the same compute budget, X-ELM outperforms jointly trained multilingual models across all 16 considered languages and that these gains transfer to downstream tasks. X-ELM provides additional benefits over performance improvements: new experts can be iteratively added, adapting X-ELM to new languages without catastrophic forgetting. Furthermore, training is asynchronous, reducing the hardware requirements for multilingual training and democratizing multilingual modeling."}
{"Title": "More Insightful Feedback for Tutoring: Enhancing Generation Mechanisms and Automatic Evaluation", "Abstract": "Incorrect student answers can become valuable learning opportunities, provided that the student understands where they went wrong and why. To this end, rather than being given the correct answer, students should receive elaborated feedback on how to correct a mistake on their own. Highlighting the complex demands that the generation of such feedback places on a model{'}s input utilization abilities, we propose two extensions to the training pipeline. Firstly, we employ a KL regularization term between a standard and enriched input format to achieve more targeted input representations. Secondly, we add a preference optimization step to encourage student answer-adaptive feedback generation. The effectiveness of those extensions is underlined by a significant increase in model performance of 3.3 METEOR points. We go beyond traditional surface form-based metrics to assess two important dimensions of feedback quality, i.e., faithfulness and informativeness. Hereby, we are the first to propose an automatic metric measuring the degree to which feedback divulges the correct answer, that we call Informativeness Index $I^2$. We verify in how far each metric captures feedback quality."}
{"Title": "Stable Language Model Pre-training by Reducing Embedding Variability", "Abstract": "Stable pre-training is essential for achieving better-performing language models. However, tracking pre-training stability is impractical due to high computational costs. We study Token Embedding Variability as a simple proxy to estimate pre-training stability. We theoretically and empirically demonstrate that Multi-head Low-Rank Attention acts as a fundamental approach to reducing instability. This is supported by empirical findings on variants on GPT-2, demonstrating improved stability and lower perplexities, even at deeper layer counts."}
{"Title": "What is lost in Normalization? Exploring Pitfalls in Multilingual ASR Model Evaluations", "Abstract": "This paper explores the pitfalls in evaluating multilingual automatic speech recognition (ASR) models, with a particular focus on Indic language scripts. We investigate the text normalization routine employed by leading ASR models, including OpenAI Whisper, Meta{'}s MMS, Seamless, and Assembly AI{'}s Conformer, and their unintended consequences on performance metrics. Our research reveals that current text normalization practices, while aiming to standardize ASR outputs for fair comparison, by removing inconsistencies such as variations in spelling, punctuation, and special characters, are fundamentally flawed when applied to Indic scripts. Through empirical analysis using text similarity scores and in-depth linguistic examination, we demonstrate that these flaws lead to artificially improved performance metrics for Indic languages. We conclude by proposing a shift towards developing text normalization routines that leverage native linguistic expertise, ensuring more robust and accurate evaluations of multilingual ASR models."}
{"Title": "Diversity Over Size: On the Effect of Sample and Topic Sizes for Topic-Dependent Argument Mining Datasets", "Abstract": "Topic-Dependent Argument Mining (TDAM), that is extracting and classifying argument components for a specific topic from large document sources, is an inherently difficult task for machine learning models and humans alike, as large TDAM datasets are rare and recognition of argument components requires expert knowledge. The task becomes even more difficult if it also involves stance detection of retrieved arguments. In this work, we investigate the effect of TDAM dataset composition in few- and zero-shot settings. Our findings show that, while fine-tuning is mandatory to achieve acceptable model performance, using carefully composed training samples and reducing the training sample size by up to almost 90{\\%} can still yield 95{\\%} of the maximum performance. This gain is consistent across three TDAM tasks on three different datasets. We also publish a new dataset and code for future benchmarking."}
{"Title": "Kiss up, Kick down: Exploring Behavioral Changes in Multi-modal Large Language Models with Assigned Visual Personas", "Abstract": "This study is the first to explore whether multi-modal large language models (LLMs) can align their behaviors with visual personas, addressing a significant gap in the literature that predominantly focuses on text-based personas. We developed a novel dataset of 5K fictional avatar images for assignment as visual personas to LLMs, and analyzed their negotiation behaviors based on the visual traits depicted in these images, with a particular focus on aggressiveness. The results indicate that LLMs assess the aggressiveness of images in a manner similar to humans and output more aggressive negotiation behaviors when prompted with an aggressive visual persona. Interestingly, the LLM exhibited more aggressive negotiation behaviors when the opponent{'}s image appeared less aggressive than their own, and less aggressive behaviors when the opponent{'}s image appeared more aggressive."}
{"Title": "ATM: Adversarial Tuning Multi-agent System Makes a Robust Retrieval-Augmented Generator", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are proven to benefit a lot from retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) in alleviating hallucinations confronted with knowledge-intensive questions. RAG adopts information retrieval techniques to inject external knowledge from semantic-relevant documents as input contexts. However, due to today{'}s Internet being flooded with numerous noisy and fabricating content, it is inevitable that RAG systems are vulnerable to these noises and prone to respond incorrectly. To this end, we propose to optimize the retrieval-augmented Generator with a Adversarial Tuning Multi-agent system **(ATM)**. The ATM steers the Generator to have a robust perspective of useful documents for question answering with the help of an auxiliary Attacker agent. The Generator and the Attacker are tuned adversarially for several iterations. After rounds of multi-agent iterative tuning, the Generator can eventually better discriminate useful documents amongst fabrications. The experimental results verify the effectiveness of ATM and we also observe that the Generator can achieve better performance compared to state-of-the-art baselines."}
{"Title": "Dynamic Multi-granularity Attribution Network for Aspect-based Sentiment Analysis", "Abstract": "Aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) aims to predict the sentiment polarity of a specific aspect within a given sentence. Most existing methods predominantly leverage semantic or syntactic information based on attention scores, which are susceptible to interference caused by irrelevant contexts and often lack sentiment knowledge at a data-specific level. In this paper, we propose a novel Dynamic Multi-granularity Attribution Network (DMAN) from the perspective of attribution. Initially, we leverage Integrated Gradients to dynamically extract attribution scores for each token, which contain underlying reasoning knowledge for sentiment analysis. Subsequently, we aggregate attribution representations from multiple semantic granularities in natural language, enhancing a profound understanding of the semantics. Finally, we integrate attribution scores with syntactic information to capture the relationships between aspects and their relevant contexts more accurately during the sentence understanding process. Extensive experiments on five benchmark datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method."}
{"Title": "Unlabeled Debiasing in Downstream Tasks via Class-wise Low Variance Regularization", "Abstract": "Language models frequently inherit societal biases from their training data. Numerous techniques have been proposed to mitigate these biases during both the pre-training and fine-tuning stages. However, fine-tuning a pre-trained debiased language model on a downstream task can reintroduce biases into the model. Additionally, existing debiasing methods for downstream tasks either (i) require labels of protected attributes (e.g., age, race, or political views) that are often not available or (ii) rely on indicators of bias, which restricts their applicability to gender debiasing since they rely on gender-specific words. To address this, we introduce a novel debiasing regularization technique based on the class-wise variance of embeddings. Crucially, our method does not require attribute labels and targets any attribute, thus addressing the shortcomings of existing debiasing methods. Our experiments on encoder language models and three datasets demonstrate that our method outperforms existing strong debiasing baselines that rely on target attribute labels while maintaining performance on the target task."}
{"Title": "Large Language Models Know What is Key Visual Entity: An LLM-assisted Multimodal Retrieval for VQA", "Abstract": "Visual question answering (VQA) tasks, often performed by visual language model (VLM), face challenges with long-tail knowledge. Recent retrieval-augmented VQA (RA-VQA) systems address this by retrieving and integrating external knowledge sources. However, these systems still suffer from redundant visual information irrelevant to the question during retrieval. To address these issues, in this paper, we propose LLM-RA, a novel method leveraging the reasoning capability of a large language model (LLM) to identify key visual entities, thus minimizing the impact of irrelevant information in the query of retriever. Furthermore, key visual entities are independently encoded for multimodal joint retrieval, preventing cross-entity interference. Experimental results demonstrate that our method outperforms other strong RA-VQA systems. In two knowledge-intensive VQA benchmarks, our method achieves the new state-of-the-art performance among those with similar scale of parameters and even performs comparably to models with 1-2 orders larger parameters."}
{"Title": "Towards Probing Speech-Specific Risks in Large Multimodal Models: A Taxonomy, Benchmark, and Insights", "Abstract": "Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) have achieved great success recently, demonstrating a strong capability to understand multimodal information and to interact with human users. Despite the progress made, the challenge of detecting high-risk interactions in multimodal settings, and in particular in speech modality, remains largely unexplored. Conventional research on risk for speech modality primarily emphasises the content (e.g., what is captured as transcription). However, in speech-based interactions, paralinguistic cues in audio can significantly alter the intended meaning behind utterances. In this work, we propose a speech-specific risk taxonomy, covering 8 risk categories under hostility (malicious sarcasm and threats), malicious imitation (age, gender, ethnicity), and stereotypical biases (age, gender, ethnicity). Based on the taxonomy, we create a small-scale dataset for evaluating current LMMs capability in detecting these categories of risk. We observe even the latest models remain ineffective to detect various paralinguistic-specific risks in speech (e.g., Gemini 1.5 Pro is performing only slightly above random baseline). Warning: this paper contains biased and offensive examples."}
{"Title": "Self-AMPLIFY: Improving Small Language Models with Self Post Hoc Explanations", "Abstract": "Incorporating natural language rationales in the prompt and In-Context Learning (ICL) have led to a significant improvement of Large Language Models (LLMs) performance. However, generating high-quality rationales require human-annotation or the use of auxiliary proxy models. In this work, we propose Self-AMPLIFY to automatically generate rationales from post hoc explanation methods applied to Small Language Models (SLMs) to improve their own performance. Self-AMPLIFY is a 3-step method that targets samples, generates rationales and builds a final prompt to leverage ICL. Self-AMPLIFY performance is evaluated on four SLMs and five datasets requiring strong reasoning abilities. Self-AMPLIFY achieves good results against competitors, leading to strong accuracy improvement. Self-AMPLIFY is the first method to apply post hoc explanation methods to autoregressive language models to generate rationales to improve their own performance in a fully automated manner."}
{"Title": "What are the Generator Preferences for End-to-end Task-Oriented Dialog System?", "Abstract": "Fully end-to-end task-oriented dialogue (EToD) systems have shown excellent performance, which requires the ability to retrieve entities accurately for generation. Existing methods improve the accuracy of entity retrieval and construct data flows between retrieval results and response generator, achieving promising results. However, most of them suffer from the following issues: (1) The entity is retrieved by directly interacting with the context at a coarse-grained level, so the similarity score may be disturbed by irrelevant attributes; (2) The generator pays equal attention to retrieved entities and the context and does not learn the generation preferences for the current turn. In this paper, we propose a framework called Regulating Preferences of Generator (RPG) based on retrieval results, which includes a generator preference extractor, an entity retriever, and a generator with the gate-controlled preference regulator. The generator preference extractor not only improves the entity retriever by filtering the interference of irrelevant attributes but also provides more focused guidance to the generator by performing inter-turn attribute prediction. Experiments and analyses on three standard benchmarks show that our framework outperforms existing methods and improves the quality of the dialogue."}
{"Title": "Paraphrase Types Elicit Prompt Engineering Capabilities", "Abstract": "Much of the success of modern language models depends on finding a suitable prompt to instruct the model. Until now, it has been largely unknown how variations in the linguistic expression of prompts affect these models. This study systematically and empirically evaluates which linguistic features influence models through paraphrase types, i.e., different linguistic changes at particular positions. We measure behavioral changes for five models across 120 tasks and six families of paraphrases (i.e., morphology, syntax, lexicon, lexico-syntax, discourse, and others). We also control for other prompt engineering factors (e.g., prompt length, lexical diversity, and proximity to training data). Our results show a potential for language models to improve tasks when their prompts are adapted in specific paraphrase types (e.g., 6.7{\\%} median gain in Mixtral 8x7B; 5.5{\\%} in LLaMA 3 8B). In particular, changes in morphology and lexicon, i.e., the vocabulary used, showed promise in improving prompts. These findings contribute to developing more robust language models capable of handling variability in linguistic expression."}
{"Title": "VLEU: a Method for Automatic Evaluation for Generalizability of Text-to-Image Models", "Abstract": "Progress in Text-to-Image (T2I) models has significantly advanced the generation of images from textual descriptions. Existing metrics, such as CLIP, effectively measure the semantic alignment between single prompts and their corresponding images. However, they fall short in evaluating a model{'}s ability to generalize across a broad spectrum of textual inputs. To address this gap, we propose the VLEU (\\textbf{V}isual \\textbf{L}anguage \\textbf{E}valuation \\textbf{U}nderstudy) metric. VLEU leverages the power of Large Language Models (LLMs) to sample from the visual text domain, encompassing the entire range of potential inputs for the T2I task, to generate a wide variety of visual text. The images generated by T2I models from these prompts are then assessed for their alignment with the input text using the CLIP model. VLEU quantitatively measures a model{'}s generalizability by computing the Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence between the visual text marginal distribution and the conditional distribution over the images generated by the model. This provides a comprehensive metric for comparing the overall generalizability of T2I models, beyond single-prompt evaluations, and offers valuable insights during the finetuning process. Our experimental results demonstrate VLEU{'}s effectiveness in evaluating the generalizability of various T2I models, positioning it as an essential metric for future research and development in image synthesis from text prompts. Our code and data will be publicly available at \\url{https://github.com/mio7690/VLEU}."}
{"Title": "Towards Online Continuous Sign Language Recognition and Translation", "Abstract": "Research on continuous sign language recognition (CSLR) is essential to bridge the communication gap between deaf and hearing individuals. Numerous previous studies have trained their models using the connectionist temporal classification (CTC) loss. During inference, these CTC-based models generally require the entire sign video as input to make predictions, a process known as offline recognition, which suffers from high latency and substantial memory usage. In this work, we take the first step towards online CSLR. Our approach consists of three phases: 1) developing a sign dictionary; 2) training an isolated sign language recognition model on the dictionary; and 3) employing a sliding window approach on the input sign sequence, feeding each sign clip to the optimized model for online recognition. Additionally, our online recognition model can be extended to support online translation by integrating a gloss-to-text network and can enhance the performance of any offline model. With these extensions, our online approach achieves new state-of-the-art performance on three popular benchmarks across various task settings. Code and models are available at https://github.com/FangyunWei/SLRT."}
{"Title": "Mitigate Extrinsic Social Bias in Pre-trained Language Models via Continuous Prompts Adjustment", "Abstract": "Although pre-trained language models (PLMs) have been widely used in natural language understandings (NLU), they are still exposed to fairness issues. Most existing extrinsic debiasing methods rely on manually curated word lists for each sensitive groups to modify training data or to add regular constraints. However, these word lists are often limited by length and scope, resulting in the degradation performance of extrinsic bias mitigation. To address the aforementioned issues, we propose a **C**ontinuous **P**rompts **A**djustment **D**ebiasing method (CPAD), which generates continuous token lists from the entire vocabulary space and uses them to bridge the gap between outputs and targets in fairness learning process. Specifically, CPAD encapsulates fine-tuning objective and debiasing objectives into several independent prompts. To avoid the limitation of manual word lists, in fairness learning phase, we extract outputs from the entire vocabulary space via fine-tuned PLM. Then, we aggregate the outputs from the same sensitive group as continuous token lists to map the outputs into protected attribute labels. Finally, after we learn the debiasing prompts in the perspective of adversarial learning, we improve fairness by adjusting continuous prompts at model inference time. Through extensive experiments on three NLU tasks, we evaluate the debiasing performance from the perspectives of group fairness and fairness through unawareness. The experimental results show that CPAD outperforms all baselines in term of single and two-attributes debiasing performance."}
{"Title": "Split and Merge: Aligning Position Biases in LLM-based Evaluators", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have shown promise as automated evaluators for assessing the quality of answers generated by AI systems. However, LLM-based evaluators exhibit position bias, or inconsistency, when used to evaluate candidate answers in pairwise comparisons, favoring either the first or second answer regardless of content. To address this limitation, we propose PORTIA, an alignment-based system designed to mimic human comparison strategies to calibrate position bias in a lightweight yet effective manner. Specifically, PORTIA splits the answers into multiple segments, taking into account both length and semantics, and merges them back into a single prompt for evaluation by LLMs. Extensive experiments with six LLMs on 11,520 answer pairs demonstrate that PORTIA markedly enhances the consistency rates for all models and forms of comparison tested, achieving an average relative improvement of 47.46{\\%}. It also enables PORTIA-enhanced GPT-3.5 to achieve agreement rates with humans comparable to GPT-4 and elevates GPT-4{'}s consistency rate up to 98{\\%}. Subsequent human evaluations indicate that the PORTIA-enhanced GPT-3.5 model can even surpass standalone GPT-4 in terms of alignment with human evaluators, highlighting PORTIA{'}s ability to correct position bias, improve LLM consistency, and boost performance while keeping cost efficiency."}
{"Title": "Integrating Argumentation and Hate-Speech-based Techniques for Countering Misinformation", "Abstract": "The proliferation of online misinformation presents a significant challenge, requiring scalable strategies for effective mitigation. While detection methods exist, current reactive approaches, like content flagging and banning, are short-term and insufficient. Additionally, advancements like large language models (LLMs) exacerbate the issue by enabling large-scale creation and dissemination of misinformation. Thus, sustainable, scalable solutions that encourage behavior change and broaden perspectives by persuading misinformants against their viewpoints or broadening their perspectives are needed. To this end, we propose persuasive LLM-based dialogue systems to tackle misinformation. However, challenges arise due to the lack of suitable datasets and formal frameworks for generating persuasive responses. Inspired by existing methods for countering online hate speech, we explore adapting counter-hate response strategies for misinformation. Since misinformation and hate speech often coexist despite differing intentions, we develop classifiers to identify and annotate response strategies from hate-speech counter-responses for use in misinformation scenarios. Human evaluations show a 91{\\%} agreement on the applicability of these strategies to misinformation. Next, as a scalable counter-misinformation solution, we create an LLM-based argument graph framework that generates persuasive responses, using the strategies as control codes to adjust the style and content. Human evaluations and case studies demonstrate that our framework generates expert-like responses and is 14{\\%} more engaging, 21{\\%} more natural, and 18{\\%} more factual than the best available alternatives."}
{"Title": "BPO: Staying Close to the Behavior LLM Creates Better Online LLM Alignment", "Abstract": "Direct alignment from preferences (DAP) has emerged as a promising paradigm for aligning large language models (LLMs) to human desiderata from pre-collected, offline preference datasets. While recent studies indicate that existing offline DAP methods can directly benefit from online training samples, we highlight the need to develop specific online DAP algorithms to fully harness the power of online training. Specifically, we identify that the learned LLM should adhere to the proximity of the behavior LLM, which collects the training samples. To this end, we propose online Preference Optimization in proximity to the Behavior LLM (BPO), emphasizing the importance of constructing a proper trust region for LLM alignment.We conduct extensive experiments to validate the effectiveness and applicability of our approach by integrating it with various DAP methods, resulting in significant performance improvements across a wide range of tasks when training with the same amount of preference data. Even when only introducing one additional data collection phase, our online BPO improves its offline DAP baseline from 72.0{\\%} to 80.2{\\%} on TL;DR and from 82.2{\\%} to 89.1{\\%} on Anthropic Helpfulness in terms of win rate against human reference text."}
{"Title": "One2Set + Large Language Model: Best Partners for Keyphrase Generation", "Abstract": "Keyphrase generation (KPG) aims to automatically generate a collection of phrases representing the core concepts of a given document. The dominant paradigms in KPG include one2seq and one2set. Recently, there has been increasing interest in applying large language models (LLMs) to KPG. Our preliminary experiments reveal that it is challenging for a single model to excel in both recall and precision. Further analysis shows that: 1) the one2set paradigm owns the advantage of high recall, but suffers from improper assignments of supervision signals during training; 2) LLMs are powerful in keyphrase selection, but existing selection methods often make redundant selections. Given these observations, we introduce a generate-then-select framework decomposing KPG into two steps, where we adopt a one2set-based model as generator to produce candidates and then use an LLM as selector to select keyphrases from these candidates. Particularly, we make two important improvements on our generator and selector: 1) we design an Optimal Transport-based assignment strategy to address the above improper assignments; 2) we model the keyphrase selection as a sequence labeling task to alleviate redundant selections. Experimental results on multiple benchmark datasets show that our framework significantly surpasses state-of-the-art models, especially in absent keyphrase prediction."}
{"Title": "Unlocking Markets: A Multilingual Benchmark to Cross-Market Question Answering", "Abstract": "Users post numerous product-related questions on e-commerce platforms, affecting their purchase decisions. Product-related question answering (PQA) entails utilizing product-related resources to provide precise responses to users. We propose a novel task of Multilingual Cross-market Product-based Question Answering (MCPQA) and define the task as providing answers to product-related questions in a main marketplace by utilizing information from another resource-rich auxiliary marketplace in a multilingual context. We introduce a large-scale dataset comprising over 7 million questions from 17 marketplaces across 11 languages. We then perform automatic translation on the Electronics category of our dataset, naming it as McMarket. We focus on two subtasks: review-based answer generation and product-related question ranking. For each subtask, we label a subset of McMarket using an LLM and further evaluate the quality of the annotations via human assessment. We then conduct experiments to benchmark our dataset, using models ranging from traditional lexical models to LLMs in both single-market and cross-market scenarios across McMarket and the corresponding LLM subset. Results show that incorporating cross-market information significantly enhances performance in both tasks."}
{"Title": "ORPO: Monolithic Preference Optimization without Reference Model", "Abstract": "While recent preference alignment algorithms for language models have demonstrated promising results, supervised fine-tuning (SFT) remains imperative for achieving successful convergence. In this paper, we revisit SFT in the context of preference alignment, emphasizing that a minor penalty for the disfavored style is sufficient for preference alignment. Building on this foundation, we introduce a straightforward reference model-free monolithic odds ratio preference optimization algorithm, ORPO, eliminating the need for an additional preference alignment phase. We demonstrate, both empirically and theoretically, that the odds ratio is a sensible choice for contrasting favored and disfavored styles during SFT across diverse sizes from 125M to 7B. Specifically, fine-tuning Phi-2 (2.7B), Llama-2 (7B), and Mistral (7B) with ORPO on the UltraFeedback alone surpasses the performance of state-of-the-art language models including Llama-2 Chat and Zephyr with more than 7B and 13B parameters: achieving up to 12.20{\\%} on AlpacaEval 2.0 (Figure 1), and 7.32 in MT-Bench (Table 2). We release code and model checkpoints for Mistral-ORPO-$\\alpha$ (7B) and Mistral-ORPO-$\\beta$ (7B)."}
{"Title": "A Multi-Perspective Analysis of Memorization in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) can generate the same sequences contained in the pre-train corpora, known as memorization.Previous research studied it at a macro level, leaving micro yet important questions under-explored, e.g., what makes sentences memorized, the dynamics when generating memorized sequence, its connection to unmemorized sequence, and its predictability.We answer the above questions by analyzing the relationship of memorization with outputs from LLM, namely, embeddings, probability distributions, and generated tokens.A memorization score is calculated as the overlap between generated tokens and actual continuations when the LLM is prompted with a context sequence from the pre-train corpora.Our findings reveal:(1) The inter-correlation between memorized/unmemorized sentences, model size, continuation size, and context size, as well as the transition dynamics between sentences of different memorization scores,(2) A sudden drop and increase in the frequency of input tokens when generating memorized/unmemorized sequences (boundary effect),(3) Cluster of sentences with different memorization scores in the embedding space,(4) An inverse boundary effect in the entropy of probability distributions for generated memorized/unmemorized sequences,(5) The predictability of memorization is related to model size and continuation length. In addition, we show a Transformer model trained by the hidden states of LLM can predict unmemorized tokens."}
{"Title": "Do LLMs suffer from Multi-Party Hangover? A Diagnostic Approach to Addressee Recognition and Response Selection in Conversations", "Abstract": "Assessing the performance of systems to classify Multi-Party Conversations (MPC) is challenging due to the interconnection between linguistic and structural characteristics of conversations. Conventional evaluation methods often overlook variances in model behavior across different levels of structural complexity on interaction graphs. In this work, we propose a methodological pipeline to investigate model performance across specific structural attributes of conversations. As a proof of concept we focus on Response Selection and Addressee Recognition tasks, to diagnose model weaknesses. To this end, we extract representative diagnostic subdatasets with a fixed number of users and a good structural variety from a large and open corpus of online MPCs. We further frame our work in terms of data minimization, avoiding the use of original usernames to preserve privacy, and propose alternatives to using original text messages. Results show that response selection relies more on the textual content of conversations, while addressee recognition requires capturing their structural dimension. Using an LLM in a zero-shot setting, we further highlight how sensitivity to prompt variations is task-dependent."}
{"Title": "Code Prompting Elicits Conditional Reasoning Abilities in Text+Code LLMs", "Abstract": "Reasoning is a fundamental component of language understanding. Recent prompting techniques, such as chain of thought, have consistently improved LLMs{'} performance on various reasoning tasks. Nevertheless, there is still little understanding of what triggers reasoning abilities in LLMs in the inference stage. In this paper, we investigate the effect of the input representation on the reasoning abilities of LLMs. We hypothesize that representing natural language tasks as code can enhance specific reasoning abilities such as entity tracking or logical reasoning. To study this, we propose code prompting, a methodology we operationalize as a chain of prompts that transforms a natural language problem into code and directly prompts the LLM using the generated code without resorting to external code execution. We find that code prompting exhibits a high-performance boost for multiple LLMs (up to 22.52 percentage points on GPT 3.5, 7.75 on Mixtral, and 16.78 on Mistral) across multiple conditional reasoning datasets. We then conduct comprehensive experiments to understand how the code representation triggers reasoning abilities and which capabilities are elicited in the underlying models. Our analysis on GPT 3.5 reveals that the code formatting of the input problem is essential for performance improvement. Furthermore, the code representation improves sample efficiency of in-context learning and facilitates state tracking of entities."}
{"Title": "Unveiling the Role of Pretraining in Direct Speech Translation", "Abstract": "Direct speech-to-text translation systems encounter an important drawback in data scarcity. A common solution consists on pretraining the encoder on automatic speech recognition, hence losing efficiency in the training process. In this study, we compare the training dynamics of a system using a pretrained encoder, the conventional approach, and one trained from scratch. We observe that, throughout the training, the randomly initialized model struggles to incorporate information from the speech inputs for its predictions. Hence, we hypothesize that this issue stems from the difficulty of effectively training an encoder for direct speech translation. While a model trained from scratch needs to learn acoustic and semantic modeling simultaneously, a pretrained one can just focus on the latter. Based on these findings, we propose a subtle change in the decoder cross-attention to integrate source information from earlier steps in training. We show that with this change, the model trained from scratch can achieve comparable performance to the pretrained one, while reducing the training time."}
{"Title": "PCQPR: Proactive Conversational Question Planning with Reflection", "Abstract": "Conversational Question Generation (CQG) enhances the interactivity of conversational question-answering systems in fields such as education, customer service, and entertainment. However, traditional CQG, focusing primarily on the immediate context, lacks the conversational foresight necessary to guide conversations toward specified conclusions. This limitation significantly restricts their ability to achieve conclusion-oriented conversational outcomes. In this work, we redefine the CQG task as Conclusion-driven Conversational Question Generation (CCQG) by focusing on proactivity, not merely reacting to the unfolding conversation but actively steering it towards a conclusion-oriented question-answer pair. To address this, we propose a novel approach, called Proactive Conversational Question Planning with self-Refining (PCQPR). Concretely, by integrating a planning algorithm inspired by Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) with the analytical capabilities of large language models (LLMs), PCQPR predicts future conversation turns and continuously refines its questioning strategies. This iterative self-refining mechanism ensures the generation of contextually relevant questions strategically devised to reach a specified outcome. Our extensive evaluations demonstrate that PCQPR significantly surpasses existing CQG methods, marking a paradigm shift towards conclusion-oriented conversational question-answering systems."}
{"Title": "CodeAgent: Autonomous Communicative Agents for Code Review", "Abstract": "Code review, which aims at ensuring the overall quality and reliability of software, is a cornerstone of software development. Unfortunately, while crucial, Code review is a labor-intensive process that the research community is looking to automate. Existing automated methods rely on single input-output generative models and thus generally struggle to emulate the collaborative nature of code review. This work introduces CodeAgent, a novel multi-agent Large Language Model (LLM) system for code review automation. CodeAgent incorporates a supervisory agent, QA-Checker, to ensure that all the agents{'} contributions address the initial review question. We evaluated CodeAgent on critical code review tasks: (1) detect inconsistencies between code changes and commit messages, (2) identify vulnerability introductions, (3) validate code style adherence, and (4) suggest code revisions. The results demonstrate CodeAgent{'}s effectiveness, contributing to a new state-of-the-art in code review automation. Our data and code are publicly available (\\url{https://github.com/Daniel4SE/codeagent})."}
{"Title": "TroL: Traversal of Layers for Large Language and Vision Models", "Abstract": "Large language and vision models (LLVMs) have been driven by the generalization power of large language models (LLMs) and the advent of visual instruction tuning. Along with scaling them up directly, these models enable LLVMs to showcase powerful vision language (VL) performances by covering diverse tasks via natural language instructions. However, existing open-source LLVMs that perform comparably to closed-source LLVMs such as GPT-4V are often considered too large (e.g., 26B, 34B, and 110B parameters), having a larger number of layers. These large models demand costly, high-end resources for both training and inference. To address this issue, we present a new efficient LLVM family with 1.8B, 3.8B, and 7B LLM model sizes, Traversal of Layers (TroL), which enables the reuse of layers in a token-wise manner. This layer traversing technique simulates the effect of looking back and retracing the answering stream while increasing the number of forward propagation layers without physically adding more layers. We demonstrate that TroL employs a simple layer traversing approach yet efficiently outperforms the open-source LLVMs with larger model sizes and rivals the performances of the closed-source LLVMs with substantial sizes."}
{"Title": "MMTE: Corpus and Metrics for Evaluating Machine Translation Quality of Metaphorical Language", "Abstract": "Machine Translation (MT) has developed rapidly since the release of Large Language Models and current MT evaluation is performed through comparison with reference human translations or by predicting quality scores from human-labeled data. However, these mainstream evaluation methods mainly focus on fluency and factual reliability, whilst paying little attention to figurative quality. In this paper, we investigate the figurative quality of MT and propose a set of human evaluation metrics focused on the translation of figurative language. We additionally present a multilingual parallel metaphor corpus generated by post-editing. Our evaluation protocol is designed to estimate four aspects of MT: Metaphorical Equivalence, Emotion, Authenticity, and Quality. In doing so, we observe that translations of figurative expressions display different traits from literal ones."}
{"Title": "Revisiting Supertagging for faster HPSG parsing", "Abstract": "We present new supertaggers trained on English HPSG-based treebanks and test the effects of the best tagger on parsing speed and accuracy. HPSG treebanks are produced automatically by large manually built grammars and feature high-quality annotation based on a well-developed linguistic theory. The English Resource Grammar treebanks include diverse and challenging test datasets, beyond the usual WSJ section 23 and Wikipedia data. HPSG supertagging has previously relied on MaxEnt-based models. We use SVM and neural CRF- and BERT-based methods and show that both SVM and neural supertaggers achieve considerably higher accuracy compared to the baseline and lead to an increase not only in the parsing speed but also the parser accuracy with respect to gold dependency structures. Our fine-tuned BERT-based tagger achieves 97.26{\\%} accuracy on 950 sentences from WSJ23 and 93.88{\\%} on the out-of-domain technical essay The Cathedral and the Bazaar. We present experiments with integrating the best supertagger into an HPSG parser and observe a speedup of a factor of 3 with respect to the system which uses no tagging at all, as well as large recall gains and an overall precision gain. We also compare our system to an existing integrated tagger and show that although the well-integrated tagger remains the fastest, our experimental system can be more accurate. Finally, we hope that the diverse and difficult datasets we used for evaluation will gain more popularity in the field: we show that results can differ depending on the dataset, even if it is an in-domain one. We contribute the complete datasets reformatted for Huggingface token classification."}
{"Title": "Improve Dense Passage Retrieval with Entailment Tuning", "Abstract": "Retrieval module can be plugged into many downstream NLP tasks to improve their performance, such as open-domain question answering and retrieval-augmented generation. The key to a retrieval system is to calculate relevance scores to query and passage pairs. However, the definition of relevance is often ambiguous. We observed that a major class of relevance aligns with the concept of entailment in NLI tasks. Based on this observation, we designed a method called entailment tuning to improve the embedding of dense retrievers. Specifically, we unify the form of retrieval data and NLI data using existence claim as a bridge. Then, we train retrievers to predict the claims entailed in a passage with a variant task of masked prediction. Our method can be efficiently plugged into current dense retrieval methods, and experiments show the effectiveness of our method."}
{"Title": "ToolBeHonest: A Multi-level Hallucination Diagnostic Benchmark for Tool-Augmented Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Tool-augmented large language models (LLMs) are rapidly being integrated into real-world applications. Due to the lack of benchmarks, the community has yet to fully understand the hallucination issues within these models. To address this challenge, we introduce a comprehensive diagnostic benchmark, ToolBH. Specifically, we assess the LLM{'}s hallucinations through two perspectives: depth and breadth. In terms of depth, we propose a multi-level diagnostic process, including (1) solvability detection, (2) solution planning, and (3) missing-tool analysis. For breadth, we consider three scenarios based on the characteristics of the toolset: missing necessary tools, potential tools, and limited functionality tools. Furthermore, we developed seven tasks and collected 700 evaluation samples through multiple rounds of manual annotation. The results show the significant challenges presented by the ToolBH benchmark. The current advanced models Gemini-1.5-Pro and GPT-4o only achieve total scores of 45.3 and 37.0, respectively, on a scale of 100. In this benchmark, larger model parameters do not guarantee better performance; the training data and response strategies also play crucial roles in tool-enhanced LLM scenarios. Our diagnostic analysis indicates that the primary reason for model errors lies in assessing task solvability. Additionally, open-weight models suffer from performance drops with verbose replies, whereas proprietary models excel with longer reasoning."}
{"Title": "TEMA: Token Embeddings Mapping for Enriching Low-Resource Language Models", "Abstract": "The objective of the research we present is to remedy the problem of the low quality of language models for low-resource languages. We introduce an algorithm, the Token Embedding Mapping Algorithm (TEMA), that maps the token embeddings of a richly pre-trained model L1 to a poorly trained model L2, thus creating a richer L2{'} model. Our experiments show that the L2{'} model reduces perplexity with respect to the original monolingual model L2, and that for downstream tasks, including SuperGLUE, the results are state-of-the-art or better for the most semantic tasks. The models obtained with TEMA are also competitive or better than multilingual or extended models proposed as solutions for mitigating the low-resource language problems."}
{"Title": "DECOR: Improving Coherence in L2 English Writing with a Novel Benchmark for Incoherence Detection, Reasoning, and Rewriting", "Abstract": "Coherence in writing, an aspect that L2 English learners often struggle with, is crucial in assessing L2 English writing. Existing automated writing evaluation systems primarily use basic surface linguistic features to detect coherence in writing. However, little effort has been made to correct the detected incoherence, which could significantly benefit L2 language learners seeking to improve their writing. To bridge this gap, we introduce DECOR, a novel benchmark that includes expert annotations for detecting incoherence in L2 English writing, identifying the underlying reasons, and rewriting the incoherent sentences. To our knowledge, DECOR is the first coherence assessment dataset specifically designed for improving L2 English writing, featuring pairs of original incoherent sentences alongside their expert-rewritten counterparts. Additionally, we fine-tuned models to automatically detect and rewrite incoherence in student essays. We find that incorporating specific reasons for incoherence during fine-tuning consistently improves the quality of the rewrites, achieving a level that is favored in both automatic and human evaluations."}
{"Title": "Text2Chart31: Instruction Tuning for Chart Generation with Automatic Feedback", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated strong capabilities across various language tasks, notably through instruction-tuning methods. However, LLMs face challenges in visualizing complex, real-world data through charts and plots. Firstly, existing datasets rarely cover a full range of chart types, such as 3D, volumetric, and gridded charts. Secondly, supervised fine-tuning methods do not fully leverage the intricate relationships within rich datasets, including text, code, and figures. To address these challenges, we propose a hierarchical pipeline and a new dataset for chart generation. Our dataset, Text2Chart31, includes 31 unique plot types referring to the Matplotlib library, with 11.1K tuples of descriptions, code, data tables, and plots. Moreover, we introduce a reinforcement learning-based instruction tuning technique for chart generation tasks without requiring human feedback. Our experiments show that this approach significantly enhances the model performance, enabling smaller models to outperform larger open-source models and be comparable to state-of-the-art proprietary models in data visualization tasks."}
{"Title": "PrExMe! Large Scale Prompt Exploration of Open Source LLMs for Machine Translation and Summarization Evaluation", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized NLP research. Notably, in-context learning enables their use as evaluation metrics for natural language generation, making them particularly advantageous in low-resource scenarios and time-restricted applications. In this work, we introduce **PrExMe**, a large-scale **Pr**ompt **Ex**ploration for **Me**trics, where we evaluate more than 720 prompt templates for open-source LLM-based metrics on machine translation (MT) and summarization datasets, totalling over 6.6M evaluations. This extensive comparison (1) benchmarks recent open-source LLMs as metrics and (2) explores the stability and variability of different prompting strategies. We discover that, on the one hand, there are scenarios for which prompts are stable. For instance, some LLMs show idiosyncratic preferences and favor to grade generated texts with textual labels while others prefer to return numeric scores. On the other hand, the stability of prompts and model rankings can be susceptible to seemingly innocuous changes. For example, changing the requested output format from {``}0 to 100{''} to ''-1 to +1{''} can strongly affect the rankings in our evaluation. Our study contributes to understanding the impact of different prompting approaches on LLM-based metrics for MT and summarization evaluation, highlighting the most stable prompting patterns and potential limitations."}
{"Title": "Universal Vulnerabilities in Large Language Models: Backdoor Attacks for In-context Learning", "Abstract": "In-context learning, a paradigm bridging the gap between pre-training and fine-tuning, has demonstrated high efficacy in several NLP tasks, especially in few-shot settings. Despite being widely applied, in-context learning is vulnerable to malicious attacks. In this work, we raise security concerns regarding this paradigm. Our studies demonstrate that an attacker can manipulate the behavior of large language models by poisoning the demonstration context, without the need for fine-tuning the model. Specifically, we design a new backdoor attack method, named ICLAttack, to target large language models based on in-context learning. Our method encompasses two types of attacks: poisoning demonstration examples and poisoning demonstration prompts, which can make models behave in alignment with predefined intentions. ICLAttack does not require additional fine-tuning to implant a backdoor, thus preserving the model{'}s generality. Furthermore, the poisoned examples are correctly labeled, enhancing the natural stealth of our attack method. Extensive experimental results across several language models, ranging in size from 1.3B to 180B parameters, demonstrate the effectiveness of our attack method, exemplified by a high average attack success rate of 95.0{\\%} across the three datasets on OPT models."}
{"Title": "Repairs in a Block World: A New Benchmark for Handling User Corrections with Multi-Modal Language Models", "Abstract": "In dialogue, the addressee may initially misunderstand the speaker and respond erroneously, often prompting the speaker to correct the misunderstanding in the next turn with a Third Position Repair (TPR). The ability to process and respond appropriately to such repair sequences is thus crucial in conversational AI systems. In this paper, we first collect, analyse, and publicly release BlockWorld-Repairs: a dataset of multi-modal TPR sequences in an instruction-following manipulation task that is, by design, rife with referential ambiguity. We employ this dataset to evaluate several state-of-the-art Vision and Language Models (VLM) across multiple settings, focusing on their capability to process and accurately respond to TPRs and thus recover from miscommunication. We find that, compared to humans, all models significantly underperform in this task. We then show that VLMs can benefit from specialised losses targeting relevant tokens during fine-tuning, achieving better performance and generalising better to new scenarios. Our results suggest that these models are not yet ready to be deployed in multi-modal collaborative settings where repairs are common, and highlight the need to design training regimes and objectives that facilitate learning from interaction. Our code and data are available at www.github.com/JChiyah/blockworld-repairs"}
{"Title": "Beyond the Turn-Based Game: Enabling Real-Time Conversations with Duplex Models", "Abstract": "As large language models (LLMs) increasingly permeate daily lives, there is a growing demand for real-time interactions that mirror human conversations. Traditional turn-based chat systems driven by LLMs prevent users from verbally interacting with the system while generating responses.To overcome these limitations, we adapt existing LLMs to \\textit{duplex models} so that they can listen to users while generating output and dynamically adjust themselves to provide instant feedback.Specifically, we divide the queries and responses of conversations into several time slices and then adopt a time-division-multiplexing (TDM) encoding-decoding strategy to process these slices pseudo-simultaneously.Furthermore, to make LLMs proficient enough to handle real-time conversations, we build a fine-tuning dataset consisting of alternating time slices of queries and responses and covering typical feedback types in instantaneous interactions.Our experiments show that although the queries and responses of conversations are segmented into incomplete slices for processing, LLMs can preserve their original performance on standard benchmarks with a few fine-tuning steps on our dataset. Automatic and human evaluation indicate that duplex models make user-AI interactions more natural and human-like, and greatly improve user satisfaction compared to vanilla LLMs. Our duplex model and dataset will be released soon."}
{"Title": "Strengthening Structural Inductive Biases by Pre-training to Perform Syntactic Transformations", "Abstract": "Models need appropriate inductive biases to effectively learn from small amounts of data and generalize systematically outside of the training distribution. While Transformers are highly versatile and powerful, they can still benefit from enhanced structural inductive biases for seq2seq tasks, especially those involving syntactic transformations, such as converting active to passive voice or semantic parsing. In this paper, we propose to strengthen the structural inductive bias of a Transformer by intermediate pre-training to perform synthetically generated syntactic transformations of dependency trees given a description of the transformation. Our experiments confirm that this helps with few-shot learning of syntactic tasks such as chunking, and also improves structural generalization for semantic parsing. Our analysis shows that the intermediate pre-training leads to attention heads that keep track of which syntactic transformation needs to be applied to which token, and that the model can leverage these attention heads on downstream tasks."}
{"Title": "Puzzle Solving using Reasoning of Large Language Models: A Survey", "Abstract": "Exploring the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) in puzzle solving unveils critical insights into their potential and challenges in AI, marking a significant step towards understanding their applicability in complex reasoning tasks. This survey leverages a unique taxonomy{---}dividing puzzles into rule-based and rule-less categories{---}to critically assess LLMs through various methodologies, including prompting techniques, neuro-symbolic approaches, and fine-tuning. Through a critical review of relevant datasets and benchmarks, we assess LLMs{'} performance, identifying significant challenges in complex puzzle scenarios. Our findings highlight the disparity between LLM capabilities and human-like reasoning, particularly in those requiring advanced logical inference. The survey underscores the necessity for novel strategies and richer datasets to advance LLMs{'} puzzle-solving proficiency and contribute to AI{'}s logical reasoning and creative problem-solving advancements."}
{"Title": "SciEx: Benchmarking Large Language Models on Scientific Exams with Human Expert Grading and Automatic Grading", "Abstract": "With the rapid development of Large Language Models (LLMs), it is crucial to have benchmarks which can evaluate the ability of LLMs on different domains. One common use of LLMs is performing tasks on scientific topics, such as writing algorithms, querying databases or giving mathematical proofs. Inspired by the way university students are evaluated on such tasks, in this paper, we propose SciEx - a benchmark consisting of university computer science exam questions, to evaluate LLMs{'} ability on solving scientific tasks. SciEx is (1) multilingual, containing both English and German exams, and (2) multi-modal, containing questions that involve images, and (3) contains various types of freeform questions with different difficulty levels, due to the nature of university exams. We evaluate the performance of various state-of-the-art LLMs on our new benchmark. Since SciEx questions are freeform, it is not straightforward to evaluate LLM performance. Therefore, we provide human expert grading of the LLM outputs on SciEx. We show that the free-form exams in SciEx remain challenging for the current LLMs, where the best LLM only achieves 59.4{\\%} exam grade on average. We also provide detailed comparisons between LLM performance and student performance on SciEx. To enable future evaluation of new LLMs, we propose using LLM-as-a-judge to grade the LLM answers on SciEx. Our experiments show that, although they do not perform perfectly on solving the exams, LLMs are decent as graders, achieving 0.948 Pearson correlation with expert grading."}
{"Title": "Red Teaming Language Models for Processing Contradictory Dialogues", "Abstract": "Most language models currently available are prone to self-contradiction during dialogues. To mitigate this issue, this study explores a novel contradictory dialogue processing task that aims to detect and modify contradictory statements in a conversation. This task is inspired by research on context faithfulness and dialogue comprehension, which have demonstrated that the detection and understanding of contradictions often necessitate detailed explanations. We develop a dataset comprising contradictory dialogues, in which one side of the conversation contradicts itself. Each dialogue is accompanied by an explanatory label that highlights the location and details of the contradiction. With this dataset, we present a Red Teaming framework for contradictory dialogue processing. The framework detects and attempts to explain the dialogue, then modifies the existing contradictory content using the explanation. Our experiments demonstrate that the framework improves the ability to detect contradictory dialogues and provides valid explanations. Additionally, it showcases distinct capabilities for modifying such dialogues. Our study highlights the importance of the logical inconsistency problem in conversational AI."}
{"Title": "Fishing for Magikarp: Automatically Detecting Under-trained Tokens in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The disconnect between tokenizer creation and model training in language models allows for specific inputs, such as the infamous SolidGoldMagikarp token, to induce unwanted model behaviour. Although such {`}glitch tokens{'}, tokens present in the tokenizer vocabulary but that are nearly or entirely absent during model training, have been observed across various models, a reliable method to identify and address them has been missing. We present a comprehensive analysis of Large Language Model tokenizers, specifically targeting this issue of detecting under-trained tokens. Through a combination of tokenizer analysis, model weight-based indicators, and prompting techniques, we develop novel and effective methods for automatically detecting these problematic tokens. Our findings demonstrate the prevalence of such tokens across a diverse set of models and provide insights into improving the efficiency and safety of language models."}
{"Title": "Reasoning or a Semblance of it? A Diagnostic Study of Transitive Reasoning in LLMs", "Abstract": "Evaluating Large Language Models (LLMs) on reasoning benchmarks demonstrates their ability to solve compositional questions. However, little is known of whether these models engage in genuine logical reasoning or simply rely on implicit cues to generate answers. In this paper, we investigate the transitive reasoning capabilities of two distinct LLM architectures, LLaMA 2 and Flan-T5, by manipulating facts within two compositional datasets: QASC and Bamboogle. We controlled for potential cues that might influence the models{'} performance, including (a) word/phrase overlaps across sections of test input; (b) models{'} inherent knowledge during pre-training or fine-tuning; and (c) Named Entities. Our findings reveal that while both models leverage (a), Flan-T5 shows more resilience to experiments (b and c), having less variance than LLaMA 2. This suggests that models may develop an understanding of transitivity through fine-tuning on knowingly relevant datasets, a hypothesis we leave to future work."}
{"Title": "Pragmatic Norms Are All You Need \u2013 Why The Symbol Grounding Problem Does Not Apply to LLMs", "Abstract": "Do LLMs fall prey to Harnad{'}s symbol grounding problem (SGP), as it has recently been claimed? We argue that this is not the case. Starting out with countering the arguments of Bender and Koller (2020), we trace the origins of the SGP to the computational theory of mind (CTM), and we show that it only arises with natural language when questionable theories of meaning are presupposed. We conclude by showing that it would apply to LLMs only if they were interpreted in the manner of how the CTM conceives the mind, i.e., by postulating that LLMs rely on a version of a language of thought, or by adopting said questionable theories of meaning; since neither option is rational, we conclude that the SGP does not apply to LLMs."}
{"Title": "Major Entity Identification: A Generalizable Alternative to Coreference Resolution", "Abstract": "The limited generalization of coreference resolution (CR) models has been a major bottleneck in the task{'}s broad application. Prior work has identified annotation differences, especially for mention detection, as one of the main reasons for the generalization gap and proposed using additional annotated target domain data. Rather than relying on this additional annotation, we propose an alternative referential task, Major Entity Identification (MEI), where we: (a) assume the target entities to be specified in the input, and (b) limit the task to only the frequent entities. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that MEI models generalize well across domains on multiple datasets with supervised models and LLM-based few-shot prompting. Additionally, MEI fits the classification framework, which enables the use of robust and intuitive classification-based metrics. Finally, MEI is also of practical use as it allows a user to search for all mentions of a particular entity or a group of entities of interest."}
{"Title": "Enhancing High-order Interaction Awareness in LLM-based Recommender Model", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated prominent reasoning capabilities in recommendation tasks by transforming them into text-generation tasks. However, existing approaches either disregard or ineffectively model the user-item high-order interactions. To this end, this paper presents an enhanced LLM-based recommender (ELMRec). We enhance whole-word embeddings to substantially enhance LLMs{'} interpretation of graph-constructed interactions for recommendations, without requiring graph pre-training. This finding may inspire endeavors to incorporate rich knowledge graphs into LLM-based recommenders via whole-word embedding. We also found that LLMs often recommend items based on users{'} earlier interactions rather than recent ones, and present a reranking solution. Our ELMRec outperforms state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods, especially achieving a 124.3{\\%} to 293.7{\\%} improvement over SOTA LLM-based methods in direct recommendations. Our code is available online."}
{"Title": "What Are the Odds? Language Models Are Capable of Probabilistic Reasoning", "Abstract": "Language models (LM) are capable of remarkably complex linguistic tasks; however, numerical reasoning is an area in which they frequently struggle. An important but rarely evaluated form of reasoning is understanding probability distributions. In this paper, we focus on evaluating the probabilistic reasoning capabilities of LMs using idealized and real-world statistical distributions. We perform a systematic evaluation of state-of-the-art LMs on three tasks: estimating percentiles, drawing samples, and calculating probabilities. We evaluate three ways to provide context to LMs 1) anchoring examples from within a distribution or family of distributions, 2) real-world context, 3) summary statistics on which to base a Normal approximation. Models can make inferences about distributions, and can be further aided by the incorporation of real-world context, example shots and simplified assumptions, even if these assumptions are incorrect or misspecified. To conduct this work, we developed a comprehensive benchmark distribution dataset with associated question-answer pairs that we have released publicly."}
{"Title": "MARE: Multi-Aspect Rationale Extractor on Unsupervised Rationale Extraction", "Abstract": "Unsupervised rationale extraction aims to extract text snippets to support model predictions without explicit rationale annotation.Researchers have made many efforts to solve this task. Previous works often encode each aspect independently, which may limit their ability to capture meaningful internal correlations between aspects. While there has been significant work on mitigating spurious correlations, our approach focuses on leveraging the beneficial internal correlations to improve multi-aspect rationale extraction. In this paper, we propose a Multi-Aspect Rationale Extractor (MARE) to explain and predict multiple aspects simultaneously. Concretely, we propose a Multi-Aspect Multi-Head Attention (MAMHA) mechanism based on hard deletion to encode multiple text chunks simultaneously. Furthermore, multiple special tokens are prepended in front of the text with each corresponding to one certain aspect. Finally, multi-task training is deployed to reduce the training overhead. Experimental results on two unsupervised rationale extraction benchmarks show that MARE achieves state-of-the-art performance. Ablation studies further demonstrate the effectiveness of our method. Our codes have been available at https://github.com/CSU-NLP-Group/MARE."}
{"Title": "LoRA-Guard: Parameter-Efficient Guardrail Adaptation for Content Moderation of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Guardrails have emerged as an alternative to safety alignment for content moderation of large language models (LLMs). Existing model-based guardrails have not been designed for resource-constrained computational portable devices, such as mobile phones, more and more of which are running LLM-based applications locally. We introduce LoRA-Guard, a parameter-efficient guardrail adaptation method that relies on knowledge sharing between LLMs and guardrail models. LoRA-Guard extracts language features from the LLMs and adapts them for the content moderation task using low-rank adapters, while a dual-path design prevents any performance degradation on the generative task. We show that LoRA-Guard outperforms existing approaches with 100-1000x lower parameter overhead while maintaining accuracy, enabling on-device content moderation."}
{"Title": "\u201cA good pun is its own reword\u201d: Can Large Language Models Understand Puns?", "Abstract": "Puns play a vital role in academic research due to their distinct structure and clear definition, which aid in the comprehensive analysis of linguistic humor. However, the understanding of puns in large language models (LLMs) has not been thoroughly examined, limiting their use in creative writing and humor creation. In this paper, we leverage three popular tasks, i.e., pun recognition, explanation and generation to systematically evaluate the capabilities of LLMs in pun understanding. In addition to adopting the automated evaluation metrics from prior research, we introduce new evaluation methods and metrics that are better suited to the in-context learning paradigm of LLMs. These new metrics offer a more rigorous assessment of an LLM{'}s ability to understand puns and align more closely with human cognition than previous metrics. Our findings reveal the {``}lazy pun generation{''} pattern and identify the primary challenges LLMs encounter in understanding puns."}
{"Title": "QGEval: Benchmarking Multi-dimensional Evaluation for Question Generation", "Abstract": "Automatically generated questions often suffer from problems such as unclear expression or factual inaccuracies, requiring a reliable and comprehensive evaluation of their quality. Human evaluation is widely used in the field of question generation (QG) and serves as the gold standard for automatic metrics. However, there is a lack of unified human evaluation criteria, which hampers consistent and reliable evaluations of both QG models and automatic metrics. To address this, we propose **QGEval**, a multi-dimensional **Eval**uation benchmark for **Q**uestion **G**eneration, which evaluates both generated questions and existing automatic metrics across 7 dimensions: fluency, clarity, conciseness, relevance, consistency, answerability, and answer consistency. We demonstrate the appropriateness of these dimensions by examining their correlations and distinctions. Through consistent evaluations of QG models and automatic metrics with QGEval, we find that 1) most QG models perform unsatisfactorily in terms of answerability and answer consistency, and 2) existing metrics fail to align well with human judgments when evaluating generated questions across the 7 dimensions. We expect this work to foster the development of both QG technologies and their evaluation."}
{"Title": "Dependency Graph Parsing as Sequence Labeling", "Abstract": "Various linearizations have been proposed to cast syntactic dependency parsing as sequence labeling. However, these approaches do not support more complex graph-based representations, such as semantic dependencies or enhanced universal dependencies, as they cannot handle reentrancy or cycles. By extending them, we define a range of unbounded and bounded linearizations that can be used to cast graph parsing as a tagging task, enlarging the toolbox of problems that can be solved under this paradigm. Experimental results on semantic dependency and enhanced UD parsing show that with a good choice of encoding, sequence-labeling semantic dependency parsers combine high efficiency with accuracies close to the state of the art, in spite of their simplicity."}
{"Title": "NuNER: Entity Recognition Encoder Pre-training via LLM-Annotated Data", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown impressive abilities in data annotation, opening the way for new approaches to solve classic NLP problems. In this paper, we show how to use LLMs to create NuNER, a compact language representation model specialized in the Named Entity Recognition (NER) task. NuNER can be fine-tuned to solve downstream NER problems in a data-efficient way, outperforming similar-sized foundation models in the few-shot regime and competing with much larger LLMs. We find that the size and entity-type diversity of the pre-training dataset are key to achieving good performance. We view NuNER as a member of the broader family of task-specific foundation models, recently unlocked by LLMs. NuNER and NuNER{'}s dataset are open-sourced with MIT License."}
{"Title": "Towards a Greek Proverb Atlas: Computational Spatial Exploration and Attribution of Greek Proverbs", "Abstract": "Proverbs carry wisdom transferred orally from generation to generation. Based on the place they were recorded, this study introduces a publicly-available and machine-actionable dataset of more than one hundred thousand Greek proverb variants. By quantifying the spatial distribution of proverbs, we show that the most widespread proverbs come from the mainland while the least widespread proverbs come primarily from the islands. By focusing on the least dispersed proverbs, we present the most frequent tokens per location and undertake a benchmark in geographical attribution, using text classification and regression (text geocoding). Our results show that this is a challenging task for which specific locations can be attributed more successfully compared to others. The potential of our resource and benchmark is showcased by two novel applications. First, we extracted terms moving the regression prediction toward the four cardinal directions. Second, we leveraged conformal prediction to attribute 3,676 unregistered proverbs with statistically rigorous predictions of locations each of these proverbs was possibly registered in."}
{"Title": "Unraveling Babel: Exploring Multilingual Activation Patterns of LLMs and Their Applications", "Abstract": "Recently, large language models (LLMs) have achieved tremendous breakthroughs in the field of NLP, but still lack understanding of their internal neuron activities when processing different languages. We designed a method to convert dense LLMs into fine-grained MoE architectures, and then visually studied the multilingual activation patterns of LLMs through expert activation frequency heatmaps. Through comprehensive experiments on different model families, different model sizes, and different variants, we analyzed the similarities and differences in the internal neuron activation patterns of LLMs when processing different languages. Specifically, we investigated the distribution of high-frequency activated experts, multilingual shared experts, whether multilingual activation patterns are related to language families, and the impact of instruction tuning on activation patterns. We further explored leveraging the discovered differences in expert activation frequencies to guide sparse activation and pruning. Experimental results demonstrated that our method significantly outperformed random expert pruning and even exceeded the performance of unpruned models in some languages. Additionally, we found that configuring different pruning rates for different layers based on activation level differences could achieve better results. Our findings reveal the multilingual processing mechanisms within LLMs and utilize these insights to offer new perspectives for applications such as sparse activation and model pruning."}
{"Title": "Advancing Semantic Textual Similarity Modeling: A Regression Framework with Translated ReLU and Smooth K2 Loss", "Abstract": "Since the introduction of BERT and RoBERTa, research on Semantic Textual Similarity (STS) has made groundbreaking progress. Particularly, the adoption of contrastive learning has substantially elevated state-of-the-art performance across various STS benchmarks. However, contrastive learning categorizes text pairs as either semantically similar or dissimilar, failing to leverage fine-grained annotated information and necessitating large batch sizes to prevent model collapse. These constraints pose challenges for researchers engaged in STS tasks that involve nuanced similarity levels or those with limited computational resources, compelling them to explore alternatives like Sentence-BERT. Despite its efficiency, Sentence-BERT tackles STS tasks from a classification perspective, overlooking the progressive nature of semantic relationships, which results in suboptimal performance. To bridge this gap, this paper presents an innovative regression framework and proposes two simple yet effective loss functions: Translated ReLU and Smooth K2 Loss. Experimental results demonstrate that our method achieves convincing performance across seven established STS benchmarks and offers the potential for further optimization of contrastive learning pre-trained models."}
{"Title": "Rationalizing Transformer Predictions via End-To-End Differentiable Self-Training", "Abstract": "We propose an end-to-end differentiable training paradigm for stable training of a rationalized transformer classifier. Our approach results in a single model that simultaneously classifies a sample and scores input tokens based on their relevance to the classification. To this end, we build on the widely-used three-player-game for training rationalized models, which typically relies on training a rationale selector, a classifier and a complement classifier. We simplify this approach by making a single model fulfill all three roles, leading to a more efficient training paradigm that is not susceptible to the common training instabilities that plague existing approaches. Further, we extend this paradigm to produce class-wise rationales while incorporating recent advances in parameterizing and regularizing the resulting rationales, thus leading to substantially improved and state-of-the-art alignment with human annotations without any explicit supervision."}
{"Title": "Segment Any Text: A Universal Approach for Robust, Efficient and Adaptable Sentence Segmentation", "Abstract": "Segmenting text into sentences plays an early and crucial role in many NLP systems. This is commonly achieved by using rule-based or statistical methods relying on lexical features such as punctuation. Although some recent works no longer exclusively rely on punctuation, we find that no prior method achieves all of (i) robustness to missing punctuation, (ii) effective adaptability to new domains, and (iii) high efficiency. We introduce a new model {---} Segment any Text (SaT) {---} to solve this problem. To enhance robustness, we propose a new pretraining scheme that ensures less reliance on punctuation. To address adaptability, we introduce an extra stage of parameter-efficient fine-tuning, establishing state-of-the-art performance in distinct domains such as verses from lyrics and legal documents. Along the way, we introduce architectural modifications that result in a threefold gain in speed over the previous state of the art and solve spurious reliance on context far in the future. Finally, we introduce a variant of our model with fine-tuning on a diverse, multilingual mixture of sentence-segmented data, acting as a drop-in replacement and enhancement for existing segmentation tools. Overall, our contributions provide a universal approach for segmenting any text. Our method outperforms all baselines {---} including strong LLMs {---} across 8 corpora spanning diverse domains and languages, especially in practically relevant situations where text is poorly formatted. Our models and code, including documentation, are readily available at https://github.com/segment-any-text/wtpsplit under the MIT license."}
{"Title": "Applying Contrastive Learning to Code Vulnerability Type Classification", "Abstract": "Vulnerability classification is a crucial task in software security analysis, essential for identifying and mitigating potential security risks. Learning-based methods often perform poorly due to the long-tail distribution of vulnerability classification datasets. Recent approaches try to address the problem but treat each CWE class in isolation, ignoring their relationships. This results in non-scalable code vector representations, causing significant performance drops when handling complex real-world vulnerabilities. We propose a hierarchical contrastive learning framework for code vulnerability type classification to bring vector representations of related CWEs closer together. To address the issue of class collapse and enhance model robustness, we mix self-supervised contrastive learning loss into our loss function. Additionally, we employ max-pooling to enable the model to handle longer vulnerability code inputs. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our proposed framework outperforms state-of-the-art methods by 2.97{\\%}$-$17.90{\\%} on accuracy and 0.98{\\%}$-$22.27{\\%} on weighted-F1, with even better performance on higher-quality datasets. We also utilize an ablation study to prove each component{'}s contribution. These findings underscore the potential and advantages of our approach in the multi-class vulnerability classification task."}
{"Title": "TheoremLlama: Transforming General-Purpose LLMs into Lean4 Experts", "Abstract": "Proving mathematical theorems using computer-verifiable formal languages like Lean significantly impacts mathematical reasoning. One approach to formal theorem proving involves generating complete proofs using Large Language Models (LLMs) based on Natural Language (NL) proofs. However, due to the scarcity of aligned NL and Formal Language (FL) theorem-proving data most modern LLMs exhibit suboptimal performance.This scarcity results in a paucity of methodologies for training LLMs and techniques to fully utilize their capabilities in composing formal proofs. To address these challenges, this paper proposes **TheoremLlama**, an end-to-end framework that trains a general-purpose LLM to be a Lean4 expert. **TheoremLlama** includes NL-FL dataset generation and bootstrapping method to obtain aligned dataset, curriculum learning and block training techniques to train the model, and iterative proof writing method to write Lean4 proofs that work together synergistically.Using the dataset generation method in **TheoremLlama**, we provide *Open Bootstrapped Theorems* (OBT), an NL-FL aligned and bootstrapped dataset. Our novel NL-FL bootstrapping method, where NL proofs are integrated into Lean4 code for training datasets, leverages the NL reasoning ability of LLMs for formal reasoning. The **TheoremLlama** framework achieves cumulative accuracies of 36.48{\\%} and 33.61{\\%} on MiniF2F-Valid and Test datasets respectively, surpassing the GPT-4 baseline of 22.95{\\%} and 25.41{\\%}. Our code, model checkpoints, and the generated dataset is published in GitHub"}
{"Title": "Multi-Level Cross-Modal Alignment for Speech Relation Extraction", "Abstract": "Speech Relation Extraction (SpeechRE) aims to extract relation triplets from speech data. However, existing studies usually use synthetic speech to train and evaluate SpeechRE models, hindering the further development of SpeechRE due to the disparity between synthetic and real speech. Meanwhile, the modality gap issue, unexplored in SpeechRE, limits the performance of existing models. In this paper, we construct two real SpeechRE datasets to facilitate subsequent researches and propose a Multi-level Cross-modal Alignment Model (MCAM) for SpeechRE. Our model consists of three components: 1) a speech encoder, extracting speech features from the input speech; 2) an alignment adapter, mapping these speech features into a suitable semantic space for the text decoder; and 3) a text decoder, autoregressively generating relation triplets based on the speech features. During training, we first additionally introduce a text encoder to serve as a semantic bridge between the speech encoder and the text decoder, and then train the alignment adapter to align the output features of speech and text encoders at multiple levels. In this way, we can effectively train the alignment adapter to bridge the modality gap between the speech encoder and the text decoder. Experimental results and in-depth analysis on our datasets strongly demonstrate the efficacy of our method."}
{"Title": "Self-Training for Sample-Efficient Active Learning for Text Classification with Pre-Trained Language Models", "Abstract": "Active learning is an iterative labeling process that is used to obtain a small labeled subset, despite the absence of labeled data, thereby enabling to train a model for supervised tasks such as text classification.While active learning has made considerable progress in recent years due to improvements provided by pre-trained language models, there is untapped potential in the often neglected unlabeled portion of the data, although it is available in considerably larger quantities than the usually small set of labeled data. In this work, we investigate how self-training, a semi-supervised approach that uses a model to obtain pseudo-labels for unlabeled data, can be used to improve the efficiency of active learning for text classification. Building on a comprehensive reproduction of four previous self-training approaches, some of which are evaluated for the first time in the context of active learning or natural language processing, we introduce HAST, a new and effective self-training strategy, which is evaluated on four text classification benchmarks. Our results show that it outperforms the reproduced self-training approaches and reaches classification results comparable to previous experiments for three out of four datasets, using as little as 25{\\%} of the data. The code is publicly available at https://github.com/chschroeder/self-training-for-sample-efficient-active-learning."}
{"Title": "PANDA: Persona Attributes Navigation for Detecting and Alleviating Overuse Problem in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "In the persona-grounded dialogue (PGD) task, it is required not only to respond fluently, but also to ground the attributes according to the current conversation topic properly. However, due to their tendency to overly ground given attributes, LLMs often generate unnatural responses provoked by using attributes that deviate from the flow of the conversation or by exploiting too many attributes at once. We term this phenomenon the *overuse* problem of LLMs. Unfortunately, research devising precise criteria and frameworks to quantitatively verify LLMs{'} *overuse* problem is obviously insufficient. To address this issue, we propose **P**ersona **A**ttributes **N**avigation for **D**etecting and **A**lleviating the *overuse* problem (**PANDA**) framework. **PANDA** is the first study to quantify the persona *overuse* problem of LLMs by establishing clear standards of the problem and verifying various LLMs based on them. Moreover, this framework navigates us into understanding persona attributes by introducing diverse and detailed dialogue topics that consider practical conversation situations. We provide insights related to LLMs{'} persona attribute *overuse* problem through comprehensive verification and analysis with **PANDA** in the PGD task. Our code and resources can be found at http://github.com/jin62304/PANDA."}
{"Title": "The Multilingual Alignment Prism: Aligning Global and Local Preferences to Reduce Harm", "Abstract": "A key concern with the concept of *{``}alignment{''}* is the implicit question of *{``}alignment to what?{''}*. AI systems are increasingly used across the world, yet safety alignment is often focused on homogeneous monolingual settings. Additionally, preference training and safety measures often overfit to harms common in Western-centric datasets. Here, we explore the viability of different alignment approaches when balancing dual objectives: addressing and optimizing for a non-homogeneous set of languages and cultural preferences while minimizing both global and local harms. We collect the first human annotated red teaming prompts in different languages, distinguishing between global and local harm, which serve as a laboratory to understand the reliability of alignment techniques when faced with preference distributions that are non-stationary across geographies and languages. While this setting is seldom covered by the literature to date, which primarily centers on English harm mitigation, it captures real-world interactions with AI systems around the world. We establish a new precedent for state-of-the-art alignment techniques across 6 languages with minimal degradation in general performance. Our work provides important insights into cross-lingual transfer and novel optimization approaches to safeguard AI systems designed to serve global populations."}
{"Title": "Subword Segmentation in LLMs: Looking at Inflection and Consistency", "Abstract": "The role of subword segmentation in relation to capturing morphological patterns in LLMs is currently not well explored. Ideally, one would train models like GPT using various segmentations and evaluate how well word meanings are captured. Since this is not computationally feasible, we group words according to their segmentation properties and compare how well a model can solve a linguistic task for these groups. We study two criteria: (i) adherence to morpheme boundaries and (ii) the segmentation consistency of the different inflected forms of a lemma. We select word forms with high and low values for these criteria and carry out experiments on GPT-4o{'}s ability to capture verbal inflection for 10 languages. Our results indicate that in particular the criterion of segmentation consistency can help to predict the model{'}s ability to recognize and generate the lemma from an inflected form, providing evidence that subword segmentation is relevant."}
{"Title": "Explicit, Implicit, and Scattered: Revisiting Event Extraction to Capture Complex Arguments", "Abstract": "Prior works formulate the extraction of event-specific arguments as a span extraction problem, where event arguments are explicit {---} i.e. assumed to be contiguous spans of text in a document. In this study, we revisit this definition of Event Extraction (EE) by introducing two key argument types that cannot be modeled by existing EE frameworks. First, implicit arguments are event arguments which are not explicitly mentioned in the text, but can be inferred through context. Second, scattered arguments are event arguments that are composed of information scattered throughout the text. These two argument types are crucial to elicit the full breadth of information required for proper event modeling.To support the extraction of explicit, implicit, and scattered arguments, we develop a novel dataset, DiscourseEE, which includes 7,464 argument annotations from online health discourse. Notably, 51.2{\\%} of the arguments are implicit, and 17.4{\\%} are scattered, making DiscourseEE a unique corpus for complex event extraction. Additionally, we formulate argument extraction as a text generation problem to facilitate the extraction of complex argument types. We provide a comprehensive evaluation of state-of-the-art models and highlight critical open challenges in generative event extraction. Our data and codebase are available at https://omar-sharif03.github.io/DiscourseEE."}
{"Title": "Let Me Teach You: Pedagogical Foundations of Feedback for Language Models", "Abstract": "Natural Language Feedback (NLF) is an increasingly popular mechanism for aligning Large Language Models (LLMs) to human preferences. Despite the diversity of the information it can convey, NLF methods are often hand-designed and arbitrary, with little systematic grounding. At the same time, research in learning sciences has long established several effective feedback models. In this opinion piece, we compile ideas from pedagogy to introduce FELT, a feedback framework for LLMs that outlines various characteristics of the feedback space, and a feedback content taxonomy based on these variables, providing a general mapping of the feedback space. In addition to streamlining NLF designs, FELT also brings out new, unexplored directions for research in NLF. We make our taxonomy available to the community, providing guides and examples for mapping our categorizations to future research."}
{"Title": "Unknown Claims: Generation of Fact-Checking Training Examples from Unstructured and Structured Data", "Abstract": "Computational fact-checking (FC) relies on supervised models to verify claims based on given evidence, requiring a resource-intensive process to annotate large volumes of training data. We introduce Unown, a novel framework that generates training instances for FC systems automatically using both textual and tabular content. Unown selects relevant evidence and generates supporting and refuting claims with advanced negation artifacts. Designed to be flexible, Unown accommodates various strategies for evidence selection and claim generation, offering unparalleled adaptability. We comprehensively evaluate Unown on both text-only and table+text benchmarks, including Feverous, SciFact, and MMFC, a new multi-modal FC dataset. Our results prove that Unown examples are of comparable quality to expert-labeled data, even enabling models to achieve up to 5{\\%} higher accuracy. The code, data, and models are available at https://github.com/disi-unibo-nlp/unown"}
{"Title": "TL-CL: Task And Language Incremental Continual Learning", "Abstract": "This paper introduces and investigates the problem of Task and Language Incremental Continual Learning (TLCL), wherein a multilingual model is systematically updated to accommodate new tasks in previously learned languages or new languages for established tasks. This significant yet previously unexplored area holds substantial practical relevance as it mirrors the dynamic requirements of real-world applications. We benchmark a representative set of continual learning (CL) algorithms for TLCL. Furthermore, we propose Task and Language-Specific Adapters (TLSA), an adapter-based parameter-efficient fine-tuning strategy. TLSA facilitates cross-lingual and cross-task transfer and outperforms other parameter-efficient fine-tuning techniques. Crucially, TLSA reduces parameter growth stemming from saving adapters to linear complexity from polynomial complexity as it was with parameter isolation-based adapter tuning. We conducted experiments on several NLP tasks arising across several languages. We observed that TLSA outperforms all other parameter-efficient approaches without requiring access to historical data for replay."}
{"Title": "Medical Adaptation of Large Language and Vision-Language Models: Are We Making Progress?", "Abstract": "Several recent works seek to develop foundation models specifically for medical applications, adapting general-purpose large language models (LLMs) and vision-language models (VLMs) via continued pretraining on publicly available biomedical corpora. These works typically claim that such domain-adaptive pretraining (DAPT) improves performance on downstream medical tasks, such as answering medical licensing exam questions. In this paper, we compare seven public {``}medical{''} LLMs and two VLMs against their corresponding base models, arriving at a different conclusion: all medical VLMs and nearly all medical LLMs fail to consistently improve over their base models in the zero-/few-shot prompting regime for medical question-answering (QA) tasks. For instance, across the tasks and model pairs we consider in the 3-shot setting, medical LLMs only outperform their base models in 12.1{\\%} of cases, reach a (statistical) tie in 49.8{\\%} of cases, and are significantly worse than their base models in the remaining 38.2{\\%} of cases. Our conclusions are based on (i) comparing each medical model head-to-head, directly against the corresponding base model; (ii) optimizing the prompts for each model separately; and (iii) accounting for statistical uncertainty in comparisons. While these basic practices are not consistently adopted in the literature, our ablations show that they substantially impact conclusions. Our findings suggest that state-of-the-art general-domain models may already exhibit strong medical knowledge and reasoning capabilities, and offer recommendations to strengthen the conclusions of future studies."}
{"Title": "Empowering Multi-step Reasoning across Languages via Program-Aided Language Models", "Abstract": "In-context learning methods are popular inference strategies where Large Language Models (LLMs) are elicited to solve a task using provided demonstrations without parameter updates. Among these approaches are the reasoning methods, best exemplified by Chain-of-Thought (CoT) and Program-Aided Language Models (PAL), which elicit LLMs to generate reasoning paths, thus promoting accuracy and attracting increasing attention. However, despite the success of these methods, the ability to deliver multi-step reasoning remains limited to a single language, making it challenging to generalize to other languages and hindering global development.In this work, we propose Cross-lingual Program-Aided Language Models (CrossPAL), a method for aligning reasoning programs across languages. In particular, our method delivers programs as intermediate reasoning steps in different languages through a double-step cross-lingual prompting mechanism inspired by the Program-Aided approach. In addition, we introduce Self-consistent CrossPAL (SCrossPAL) to ensemble different reasoning paths across languages. Our experimental evaluations show that our method significantly outperforms existing prompting methods, reducing the number of interactions and achieving state-of-the-art performance."}
{"Title": "Do LLMs Overcome Shortcut Learning? An Evaluation of Shortcut Challenges in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable capabilities in various natural language processing tasks. However, LLMs may rely on dataset biases as shortcuts for prediction, which can significantly impair their robustness and generalization capabilities. This paper presents Shortcut Suite, a comprehensive test suite designed to evaluate the impact of shortcuts on LLMs{'} performance, incorporating six shortcut types, five evaluation metrics, and four prompting strategies. Our extensive experiments yield several key findings: 1) LLMs demonstrate varying reliance on shortcuts for downstream tasks, which significantly impairs their performance. 2) Larger LLMs are more likely to utilize shortcuts under zero-shot and few-shot in-context learning prompts. 3) Chain-of-thought prompting notably reduces shortcut reliance and outperforms other prompting strategies, while few-shot prompts generally underperform compared to zero-shot prompts. 4) LLMs often exhibit overconfidence in their predictions, especially when dealing with datasets that contain shortcuts. 5) LLMs generally have a lower explanation quality in shortcut-laden datasets, with errors falling into three types: distraction, disguised comprehension, and logical fallacy. Our findings offer new insights for evaluating robustness and generalization in LLMs and suggest potential directions for mitigating the reliance on shortcuts."}
{"Title": "ControlMath: Controllable Data Generation Promotes Math Generalist Models", "Abstract": "Utilizing large language models (LLMs) for data augmentation has yielded encouraging results in mathematical reasoning. However, these approaches face constraints in problem diversity, potentially restricting them to in-domain/distribution data generation. To this end, we propose **ControlMath**, an iterative method involving an equation-generator module and two LLM-based agents. The module creates diverse equations, which the Problem-Crafter agent then transforms into math word problems. The Reverse-Agent filters and selects high-quality data, adhering to the {``}less is more{''} principle. This approach enables the generation of diverse math problems, not limited to specific domains or distributions. As a result, we collect ControlMathQA, which involves 190k math word problems. Extensive results prove that combining our dataset with in-domain datasets like GSM8K can help improve the model{'}s mathematical ability to generalize, leading to improved performance both within and beyond specific domains."}
{"Title": "Where Am I From? Identifying Origin of LLM-generated Content", "Abstract": "Generative models, particularly large language models (LLMs), have achieved remarkable success in producing natural and high-quality content. However, their widespread adoption raises concerns regarding copyright infringement, privacy violations, and security risks associated with AI-generated content. To address these concerns, we propose a novel digital forensics framework for LLMs, enabling the tracing of AI-generated content back to its source. This framework embeds a secret watermark directly into the generated output, eliminating the need for model retraining. To enhance traceability, especially for short outputs, we introduce a {``}depth watermark{''} that strengthens the link between content and generator. Our approach ensures accurate tracing while maintaining the quality of the generated content. Extensive experiments across various settings and datasets validate the effectiveness and robustness of our proposed framework."}
{"Title": "ReadMe++: Benchmarking Multilingual Language Models for Multi-Domain Readability Assessment", "Abstract": "We present a comprehensive evaluation of large language models for multilingual readability assessment. Existing evaluation resources lack domain and language diversity, limiting the ability for cross-domain and cross-lingual analyses. This paper introduces ReadMe++, a multilingual multi-domain dataset with human annotations of 9757 sentences in Arabic, English, French, Hindi, and Russian, collected from 112 different data sources. This benchmark will encourage research on developing robust multilingual readability assessment methods. Using ReadMe++, we benchmark multilingual and monolingual language models in the supervised, unsupervised, and few-shot prompting settings. The domain and language diversity in ReadMe++ enable us to test more effective few-shot prompting, and identify shortcomings in state-of-the-art unsupervised methods. Our experiments also reveal exciting results of superior domain generalization and enhanced cross-lingual transfer capabilities by models trained on ReadMe++. We will make our data publicly available and release a python package tool for multilingual sentence readability prediction using our trained models at: https://github.com/tareknaous/readme"}
{"Title": "GlossLM: A Massively Multilingual Corpus and Pretrained Model for Interlinear Glossed Text", "Abstract": "Language documentation projects often involve the creation of annotated text in a format such as interlinear glossed text (IGT), which captures fine-grained morphosyntactic analyses in a morpheme-by-morpheme format. However, there are few existing resources providing large amounts of standardized, easily accessible IGT data, limiting their applicability to linguistic research, and making it difficult to use such data in NLP modeling. We compile the largest existing corpus of IGT data from a variety of sources, covering over 450k examples across 1.8k languages, to enable research on crosslingual transfer and IGT generation. We normalize much of our data to follow a standard set of labels across languages.Furthermore, we explore the task of automatically generating IGT in order to aid documentation projects. As many languages lack sufficient monolingual data, we pretrain a large multilingual model on our corpus. We demonstrate the utility of this model by finetuning it on monolingual corpora, outperforming SOTA models by up to 6.6{\\%}. Our pretrained model and dataset are available on Hugging Face: https://huggingface.co/collections/lecslab/glosslm-66da150854209e910113dd87"}
{"Title": "GDTB: Genre Diverse Data for English Shallow Discourse Parsing across Modalities, Text Types, and Domains", "Abstract": "Work on shallow discourse parsing in English has focused on the Wall Street Journal corpus, the only large-scale dataset for the language in the PDTB framework. However, the data is not openly available, is restricted to the news domain, and is by now 35 years old. In this paper, we present and evaluate a new open-access, multi-genre benchmark for PDTB-style shallow discourse parsing, based on the existing UD English GUM corpus, for which discourse relation annotations in other frameworks already exist. In a series of experiments on cross-domain relation classification, we show that while our dataset is compatible with PDTB, substantial out-of-domain degradation is observed, which can be alleviated by joint training on both datasets."}
{"Title": "RA2FD: Distilling Faithfulness into Efficient Dialogue Systems", "Abstract": "Generating faithful and fast responses is crucial in the knowledge-grounded dialogue. Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) strategies are effective but are inference inefficient, while previous Retrieval Free Generations (RFG) are more efficient but sacrifice faithfulness. To solve this faithfulness-efficiency trade-off dilemma, we propose a novel retrieval-free model training scheme named Retrieval Augmented to Retrieval Free Distillation (RA2FD) to build a retrieval-free model that achieves higher faithfulness than the previous RFG method while maintaining inference efficiency. The core idea of RA2FD is to use a teacher-student framework to distill the faithfulness capacity of a teacher, which is an oracle RAG model that generates multiple knowledge-infused responses. The student retrieval-free model learns how to generate faithful responses from these teacher labels through sequence-level distillation and contrastive learning. Experiment results show that RA2FD let the faithfulness performance of an RFG model surpass the previous SOTA RFG baseline on three knowledge-grounded dialogue datasets by an average of 33{\\%} and even matching an RAG model{'}s performance while significantly improving inference efficiency. Our code is available at https://github.com/zzysjtuiwct/RA2FD."}
{"Title": "Subjective Topic meets LLMs: Unleashing Comprehensive, Reflective and Creative Thinking through the Negation of Negation", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) exhibit powerful reasoning capacity, as evidenced by prior studies focusing on objective topics that with unique standard answers such as arithmetic and commonsense reasoning. However, the reasoning to definite answers emphasizes more on logical thinking, and falls short in effectively reflecting the comprehensive, reflective, and creative thinking that is also critical for the overall reasoning prowess of LLMs. In light of this, we build a dataset SJTP comprising diverse SubJective ToPics with free responses, as well as three evaluation indicators to fully explore LLM{'}s reasoning ability. We observe that a sole emphasis on logical thinking falls short in effectively tackling subjective challenges. Therefore, we introduce a framework grounded in the principle of the Negation of Negation (NeoN) to unleash the potential comprehensive, reflective, and creative thinking abilities of LLMs. Comprehensive experiments on SJTP demonstrate the efficacy of NeoN, and the enhanced performance on various objective reasoning tasks unequivocally underscores the benefits of stimulating LLM{'}s subjective thinking in augmenting overall reasoning capabilities."}
{"Title": "Experimental Contexts Can Facilitate Robust Semantic Property Inference in Language Models, but Inconsistently", "Abstract": "Recent zero-shot evaluations have highlighted important limitations in the abilities of language models (LMs) to perform meaning extraction. However, it is now well known that LMs can demonstrate radical improvements in the presence of experimental contexts such as in-context examples and instructions. How well does this translate to previously studied meaning-sensitive tasks? We present a case-study on the extent to which experimental contexts can improve LMs{'} robustness in performing property inheritance{---}predicting semantic properties of novel concepts, a task that they have been previously shown to fail on. Upon carefully controlling the nature of the in-context examples and the instructions, our work reveals that they can indeed lead to non-trivial property inheritance behavior in LMs. However, this ability is inconsistent: with a minimal reformulation of the task, some LMs were found to pick up on shallow, non-semantic heuristics from their inputs, suggesting that the computational principles of semantic property inference are yet to be mastered by LMs."}
{"Title": "Leveraging Estimated Transferability Over Human Intuition for Model Selection in Text Ranking", "Abstract": "Text ranking has witnessed significant advancements, attributed to the utilization of dual-encoder enhanced by Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs). Given the proliferation of available PLMs, selecting the most effective one for a given dataset has become a non-trivial challenge. As a promising alternative to human intuition and brute-force fine-tuning, Transferability Estimation (TE) has emerged as an effective approach to model selection. However, current TE methods are primarily designed for classification tasks, and their estimated transferability may not align well with the objectives of text ranking. To address this challenge, we propose to compute the expected rank as transferability, explicitly reflecting the model{'}s ranking capability. Furthermore, to mitigate anisotropy and incorporate training dynamics, we adaptively scale isotropic sentence embeddings to yield an accurate expected rank score. Our resulting method, Adaptive Ranking Transferability (AiRTran), can effectively capture subtle differences between models. On challenging model selection scenarios across various text ranking datasets, it demonstrates significant improvements over previous classification-oriented TE methods, human intuition, and ChatGPT with minor time consumption."}
{"Title": "Unveiling In-Context Learning: A Coordinate System to Understand Its Working Mechanism", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) exhibit remarkable in-context learning (ICL) capabilities. However, the underlying working mechanism of ICL remains poorly understood. Recent research presents two conflicting views on ICL: One emphasizes the impact of similar examples in the demonstrations, stressing the need for label correctness and more shots. The other attributes it to LLMs{'} inherent ability of task recognition, deeming label correctness and shot numbers of demonstrations as not crucial. In this work, we provide a Two-Dimensional Coordinate System that unifies both views into a systematic framework. The framework explains the behavior of ICL through two orthogonal variables: whether similar examples are presented in the demonstrations (perception) and whether LLMs can recognize the task (cognition). We propose the peak inverse rank metric to detect the task recognition ability of LLMs and study LLMs{'} reactions to different definitions of similarity. Based on these, we conduct extensive experiments to elucidate how ICL functions across each quadrant on multiple representative classification tasks. Finally, we extend our analyses to generation tasks, showing that our coordinate system can also be used to interpret ICL for generation tasks effectively."}
{"Title": "Self-Powered LLM Modality Expansion for Large Speech-Text Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) exhibit remarkable performance across diverse tasks, indicating their potential for expansion into large speech-text models (LSMs) by integrating speech capabilities. Although unified speech-text pre-training and multimodal data instruction-tuning offer considerable benefits, these methods generally entail significant resource demands and tend to overfit specific tasks.This study aims to refine the use of speech datasets for LSM training by addressing the limitations of vanilla instruction tuning. We explore the instruction-following dynamics within LSMs, identifying a critical issue termed speech anchor bias{---}a tendency for LSMs to over-rely on speech inputs, mistakenly interpreting the entire speech modality as directives, thereby neglecting textual instructions.To counteract this bias, we introduce a self-powered LSM that leverages augmented automatic speech recognition data generated by the model itself for more effective instruction tuning. Our experiments across a range of speech-based tasks demonstrate that self-powered LSM mitigates speech anchor bias and improves the fusion of speech and text modalities in LSMs. Data, code and scripts are freely available at https://github.com/ytf-philp/Self-powered-LSM."}
{"Title": "ABSEval: An Agent-based Framework for Script Evaluation", "Abstract": "Recent research indicates that large language models (LLMs) possess a certain degree of script planning capability. However, there is still a lack of focused work on evaluating scripts generated by LLMs. The evaluation of scripts poses challenges due to their logical structure, sequential organization, adherence to commonsense constraints, and open-endedness. In this work, We introduced a novel script evaluation dataset, MCScript, consisting of more than 1,500 script evaluation tasks and steps, and developed an agent-based script evaluation framework, ABSEval, to collaboratively evaluate scripts generated by LLMs. Our experiments demonstrate that ABSEval provides superior accuracy and relevance, aligning closely with human evaluation. We evaluated the script planning capabilities of 15 mainstream LLMs and provided a detailed analysis. Furthermore, we observed phenomena like the key factor influencing the script planning ability of LLM is not parameter size and suggested improvements for evaluating open-ended questions."}
{"Title": "Latent Concept-based Explanation of NLP Models", "Abstract": "Interpreting and understanding the predictions made by deep learning models poses a formidable challenge due to their inherently opaque nature. Many previous efforts aimed at explaining these predictions rely on input features, specifically, the words within NLP models. However, such explanations are often less informative due to the discrete nature of these words and their lack of contextual verbosity. To address this limitation, we introduce the Latent Concept Attribution method (LACOAT), which generates explanations for predictions based on latent concepts. Our foundational intuition is that a word can exhibit multiple facets, contingent upon the context in which it is used. Therefore, given a word in context, the latent space derived from our training process reflects a specific facet of that word. LACOAT functions by mapping the representations of salient input words into the training latent space, allowing it to provide latent context-based explanations of the prediction."}
{"Title": "Decoding with Limited Teacher Supervision Requires Understanding When to Trust the Teacher", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Enhancing Data Quality through Simple De-duplication: Navigating Responsible Computational Social Science Research", "Abstract": "Research in natural language processing (NLP) for Computational Social Science (CSS) heavily relies on data from social media platforms. This data plays a crucial role in the development of models for analysing socio-linguistic phenomena within online communities. In this work, we conduct an in-depth examination of 20 datasets extensively used in NLP for CSS to comprehensively examine data quality. Our analysis reveals that social media datasets exhibit varying levels of data duplication. Consequently, this gives rise to challenges like label inconsistencies and data leakage, compromising the reliability of models. Our findings also suggest that data duplication has an impact on the current claims of state-of-the-art performance, potentially leading to an overestimation of model effectiveness in real-world scenarios. Finally, we propose new protocols and best practices for improving dataset development from social media data and its usage."}
{"Title": "The Mystery of the Pathological Path-star Task for Language Models", "Abstract": "The recently introduced path-star task is a minimal task designed to exemplify limitations to the abilities of language models (Bachmann and Nagarajan, 2024). It involves a path-star graph where multiple arms radiate from a single starting node and each node is unique. Given the start node and a specified target node that ends an arm, the task is to generate the arm containing that target node. This is straightforward for a human but surprisingly difficult for language models, which did not outperform the random baseline. The authors hypothesized this is due to a deficiency in teacher-forcing and the next-token prediction paradigm. We demonstrate the task is learnable using teacher-forcing in alternative settings and that the issue is partially due to representation. We introduce a regularization method using structured samples of the same graph but with differing target nodes, improving results across a variety of model types. We provide RASP proofs showing the task is theoretically solvable. Finally, we find settings where an encoder-only model can consistently solve the task."}
{"Title": "Voices in a Crowd: Searching for clusters of unique perspectives", "Abstract": "Language models have been shown to reproduce underlying biases existing in their training data, which is the majority perspective by default. Proposed solutions aim to capture minority perspectives by either modelling annotator disagreements or grouping annotators based on shared metadata, both of which face significant challenges. We propose a framework that trains models without encoding annotator metadata, extracts latent embeddings informed by annotator behaviour, and creates clusters of similar opinions, that we refer to as voices. Resulting clusters are validated post-hoc via internal and external quantitative metrics, as well a qualitative analysis to identify the type of voice that each cluster represents. Our results demonstrate the strong generalisation capability of our framework, indicated by resulting clusters being adequately robust, while also capturing minority perspectives based on different demographic factors throughout two distinct datasets."}
{"Title": "Neeko: Leveraging Dynamic LoRA for Efficient Multi-Character Role-Playing Agent", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized open-domain dialogue agents but encounter challenges in multi-character role-playing (MCRP) scenarios. To address the issue, we present Neeko, an innovative framework designed for efficient multiple characters imitation. Neeko employs a dynamic low-rank adapter (LoRA) strategy, enabling it to adapt seamlessly to diverse characters. Our framework breaks down the role-playing process into agent pre-training, multiple characters playing, and character incremental learning, effectively handling both seen and unseen roles. This dynamic approach, coupled with distinct LoRA blocks for each character, enhances Neeko{'}s adaptability to unique attributes, personalities, and speaking patterns. As a result, Neeko demonstrates superior performance in MCRP over most existing methods, offering more engaging and versatile user interaction experiences."}
{"Title": "SLANG: New Concept Comprehension of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The dynamic nature of language, particularly evident in the realm of slang and memes on the Internet, poses serious challenges to the adaptability of Large Language Models (LLMs). Traditionally anchored to static datasets, these models often struggle to keep up with the rapid linguistic evolution characteristic of online communities. This research aims to bridge this gap by enhancing LLMs{'} comprehension of the evolving new concepts on the Internet, without the high cost of continual retraining. In pursuit of this goal, we introduce \\textbf{SLNAG}, a benchmark designed to autonomously integrate novel data and assess LLMs{'} ability to comprehend emerging concepts, alongside \\textbf{FOCUS}, an approach uses causal inference to enhance LLMs to understand new phrases and their colloquial context. Our benchmark and approach involves understanding real-world instances of linguistic shifts, serving as contextual beacons, to form more precise and contextually relevant connections between newly emerging expressions and their meanings. The empirical analysis shows that our causal inference-based approach outperforms the baseline methods in terms of precision and relevance in the comprehension of Internet slang and memes."}
{"Title": "Towards Interpretable Sequence Continuation: Analyzing Shared Circuits in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "While transformer models exhibit strong capabilities on linguistic tasks, their complex architectures make them difficult to interpret. Recent work has aimed to reverse engineer transformer models into human-readable representations called circuits that implement algorithmic functions. We extend this research by analyzing and comparing circuits for similar sequence continuation tasks, which include increasing sequences of Arabic numerals, number words, and months. By applying circuit interpretability analysis, we identify a key sub-circuit in both GPT-2 Small and Llama-2-7B responsible for detecting sequence members and for predicting the next member in a sequence. Our analysis reveals that semantically related sequences rely on shared circuit subgraphs with analogous roles. Additionally, we show that this sub-circuit has effects on various math-related prompts, such as on intervaled circuits, Spanish number word and months continuation, and natural language word problems. Overall, documenting shared computational structures enables better model behavior predictions, identification of errors, and safer editing procedures. This mechanistic understanding of transformers is a critical step towards building more robust, aligned, and interpretable language models."}
{"Title": "Why Does New Knowledge Create Messy Ripple Effects in LLMs?", "Abstract": "Extensive previous research has focused on post-training knowledge editing (KE) for language models (LMs) to ensure that knowledge remains accurate and up-to-date. One desired property and open question in KE is to let edited LMs correctly handle ripple effects, where LM is expected to answer its logically related knowledge accurately. In this paper, we answer the question of why most KE methods still create messy ripple effects. We conduct extensive analysis and identify a salient indicator, GradSim, that effectively reveals when and why updated knowledge ripples in LMs. GradSim is computed by the cosine similarity between gradients of the original fact and its related knowledge. We observe a strong positive correlation between ripple effect performance and GradSim across different LMs, KE methods, and evaluation metrics. Further investigations into three counter-intuitive failure cases (Negation, Over-Ripple, Multi-Lingual) of ripple effects demonstrate that these failures are often associated with very low GradSim. This finding validates that GradSim is an effective indicator of when knowledge ripples in LMs."}
{"Title": "Lifelong Event Detection via Optimal Transport", "Abstract": "Continual Event Detection (CED) poses a formidable challenge due to the catastrophic forgetting phenomenon, where learning new tasks (with new coming event types) hampers performance on previous ones. In this paper, we introduce a novel approach, Lifelong Event Detection via Optimal Transport (**LEDOT**), that leverages optimal transport principles to align the optimization of our classification module with the intrinsic nature of each class, as defined by their pre-trained language modeling. Our method integrates replay sets, prototype latent representations, and an innovative Optimal Transport component. Extensive experiments on MAVEN and ACE datasets demonstrate LEDOT{'}s superior performance, consistently outperforming state-of-the-art baselines. The results underscore LEDOT as a pioneering solution in continual event detection, offering a more effective and nuanced approach to addressing catastrophic forgetting in evolving environments."}
{"Title": "SUPER: Evaluating Agents on Setting Up and Executing Tasks from Research Repositories", "Abstract": "Given that Large Language Models (LLMs) have made significant progress in writing code, can they now be used to autonomously reproduce results from research repositories? Such a capability would be a boon to the research community, helping researchers validate, understand, and extend prior work. To advance towards this goal, we introduce SUPER, the first benchmark designed to evaluate the capability of LLMs in setting up and executing tasks from research repositories. SUPER aims to capture the realistic challenges faced by researchers working with Machine Learning (ML) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) research repositories. Our benchmark comprises three distinct problem sets: 45 end-to-end problems with annotated expert solutions, 152 sub-problems derived from the expert set that focus on specific challenges (e.g., configuring a trainer), and 602 automatically generated problems for larger-scale development. We introduce various evaluation measures to assess both task success and progress, utilizing gold solutions when available or approximations otherwise. We show that state-of-the-art approaches struggle to solve these problems with the best model (GPT-4o) solving only 16.3{\\%} of the end-to-end set, and 46.1{\\%} of the scenarios. This illustrates the challenge of this task, and suggests that SUPER can serve as a valuable resource for the community to make and measure progress."}
{"Title": "FIRST: Teach A Reliable Large Language Model Through Efficient Trustworthy Distillation", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have become increasingly prevalent in our daily lives, leading to an expectation for LLMs to be trustworthy {---}- both accurate and well-calibrated (the prediction confidence should align with its ground truth correctness likelihood). Nowadays, fine-tuning has become the most popular method for adapting a model to practical usage by significantly increasing accuracy on downstream tasks. Despite the great accuracy it achieves, we found fine-tuning is still far away from satisfactory trustworthiness due to {``}tuning-induced mis-calibration{''}. In this paper, we delve deeply into why and how mis-calibration exists in fine-tuned models, and how distillation can alleviate the issue. Then we further propose a brand new method named Efficient Trustworthy Distillation (FIRST), which utilizes a small portion of teacher{'}s knowledge to obtain a reliable language model in a cost-efficient way. Specifically, we identify the {``}concentrated knowledge{''} phenomenon during distillation, which can significantly reduce the computational burden. Then we apply a {``}trustworthy maximization{''} process to optimize the utilization of this small portion of concentrated knowledge before transferring it to the student. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method, where better accuracy (+2.3{\\%}) and less mis-calibration (-10{\\%}) are achieved on average across both in-domain and out-of-domain scenarios, indicating better trustworthiness."}
{"Title": "Domain adapted machine translation: What does catastrophic forgetting forget and why?", "Abstract": "Neural Machine Translation (NMT) models can be specialized by domain adaptation, often involving fine-tuning on a dataset of interest. This process risks catastrophic forgetting: rapid loss of generic translation quality. Forgetting has been widely observed, with many mitigation methods proposed. However, the causes of forgetting and the relationship between forgetting and adaptation data are underexplored.This paper takes a novel approach to understanding catastrophic forgetting during NMT adaptation by investigating the impact of the data. We provide a first investigation of what is forgotten, and why. We examine the relationship between forgetting and the in-domain data, and show that the amount and type of forgetting is linked to that data{'}s target vocabulary coverage. Our findings pave the way toward better informed NMT domain adaptation."}
{"Title": "Enhancing AI Assisted Writing with One-Shot Implicit Negative Feedback", "Abstract": "AI-mediated communication enables users to communicate more quickly and efficiently. Various systems have been proposed such as smart reply and AI-assisted writing. Yet, the heterogeneity of the forms of inputs and architectures often renders it challenging to combine insights from user behaviour in one system to improve performance in another. In this work, we consider the case where the user does not select any of the suggested replies from a smart reply system, and how this can be used as one-shot implicit negative feedback to enhance the accuracy of an AI writing model. We introduce Nifty, an approach that uses classifier guidance to controllably integrate implicit user feedback into the text generation process. Empirically, we find up to 34{\\%} improvement in Rouge-L, 89{\\%} improvement in generating the correct intent, and an 86{\\%} win-rate according to human evaluators compared to a vanilla AI writing system on the MultiWOZ and Schema-Guided Dialog datasets. The code is available at https://github.com/BenjaminTowle/NIFTY."}
{"Title": "Atomic Self-Consistency for Better Long Form Generations", "Abstract": "Recent work has aimed to improve LLM generations by filtering out hallucinations, thereby improving the precision of the information in responses. Correctness of a long-form response, however, also depends on the recall of multiple pieces of information relevant to the question. In this paper, we introduce Atomic Self-Consistency (ASC), a technique for improving the recall of relevant information in an LLM response. ASC follows recent work, Universal Self-Consistency (USC) in using multiple stochastic samples from an LLM to improve the long-form response. Unlike USC which only focuses on selecting the best single generation, ASC picks authentic subparts from the samples and merges them into a superior composite answer. Through extensive experiments and ablations, we show that merging relevant subparts of multiple samples performs significantly better than picking a single sample. ASC demonstrates significant gains over USC on multiple factoids and open-ended QA datasets - ASQA, QAMPARI, QUEST, ELI5 with ChatGPT and Llama3. Our analysis also reveals untapped potential for enhancing long-form generations using the approach of merging multiple samples."}
{"Title": "\u201cGlobal is Good, Local is Bad?\u201d: Understanding Brand Bias in LLMs", "Abstract": "Many recent studies have investigated social biases in LLMs but brand bias has received little attention. This research examines the biases exhibited by LLMs towards different brands, a significant concern given the widespread use of LLMs in affected use cases such as product recommendation and market analysis. Biased models may perpetuate societal inequalities, unfairly favoring established global brands while marginalizing local ones. Using a curated dataset across four brand categories, we probe the behavior of LLMs in this space. We find a consistent pattern of bias in this space{---}both in terms of disproportionately associating global brands with positive attributes and disproportionately recommending luxury gifts for individuals in high-income countries. We also find LLMs are subject to country-of-origin effects which may boost local brand preference in LLM outputs in specific contexts."}
{"Title": "Optimizing Rare Word Accuracy in Direct Speech Translation with a Retrieval-and-Demonstration Approach", "Abstract": "Direct speech translation (ST) models often struggle with rare words. Incorrect translation of these words can have severe consequences, impacting translation quality and user trust. While rare word translation is inherently challenging for neural models due to sparse learning signals, real-world scenarios often allow access to translations of past recordings on similar topics. To leverage these valuable resources, we propose a retrieval-and-demonstration approach to enhance rare word translation accuracy in direct ST models. First, we adapt existing ST models to incorporate retrieved examples for rare word translation, which allows the model to benefit from prepended examples, similar to in-context learning. We then develop a cross-modal (speech-to-speech, speech-to-text, text-to-text) retriever to locate suitable examples. We demonstrate that standard ST models can be effectively adapted to leverage examples for rare word translation, improving rare word translation accuracy over the baseline by 17.6{\\%} with gold examples and 8.5{\\%} with retrieved examples. Moreover, our speech-to-speech retrieval approach outperforms other modalities and exhibits higher robustness to unseen speakers. Our code is publicly available."}
{"Title": "ACE: A LLM-based Negotiation Coaching System", "Abstract": "The growing prominence of LLMs has led to an increase in the development of AI tutoring systems. These systems are crucial in providing underrepresented populations with improved access to valuable education. One important area of education that is unavailable to many learners is strategic bargaining related to negotiation. To address this, we develop a LLM-based Assistant for Coaching nEgotiation (ACE). ACE not only serves as a negotiation partner for users but also provides them with targeted feedback for improvement. To build our system, we collect a dataset of negotiation transcripts between MBA students. These transcripts come from trained negotiators and emulate realistic bargaining scenarios. We use the dataset, along with expert consultations, to design an annotation scheme for detecting negotiation mistakes. ACE employs this scheme to identify mistakes and provide targeted feedback to users. To test the effectiveness of ACE-generated feedback, we conducted a user experiment with two consecutive trials of negotiation and found that it improves negotiation performances significantly compared to a system that doesn{'}t provide feedback and one which uses an alternative method of providing feedback."}
{"Title": "TransferTOD: A Generalizable Chinese Multi-Domain Task-Oriented Dialogue System with Transfer Capabilities", "Abstract": "Task-oriented dialogue (TOD) systems aim to efficiently handle task-oriented conversations, including information collection. How to utilize TOD accurately, efficiently and effectively for information collection has always been a critical and challenging task. Recent studies have demonstrated that Large Language Models (LLMs) excel in dialogue, instruction generation, and reasoning, and can significantly enhance the performance of TOD through fine-tuning. However, current datasets primarily cater to user-led systems and are limited to predefined specific scenarios and slots, thereby necessitating improvements in the proactiveness, diversity, and capabilities of TOD. In this study, we present a detailed multi-domain task-oriented data construction process for conversations, and a Chinese dialogue dataset generated based on this process, **TransferTOD**, which authentically simulates human-computer dialogues in 30 popular life service scenarios. Leveraging this dataset, we trained a model using full-parameter fine-tuning called **TransferTOD-7B**, showcasing notable abilities in slot filling and questioning. Our work has demonstrated its strong generalization capabilities in various downstream scenarios, significantly enhancing both data utilization efficiency and system performance. The data is released in https://github.com/KongLongGeFDU/TransferTOD."}
{"Title": "PATIENT-\u03c8: Using Large Language Models to Simulate Patients for Training Mental Health Professionals", "Abstract": "Mental illness remains one of the most critical public health issues. Despite its importance, many mental health professionals highlight a disconnect between their training and actual real-world patient practice. To help bridge this gap, we propose PATIENT-$\\psi$, a novel patient simulation framework for cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) training. To build PATIENT-$\\psi$, we construct diverse patient cognitive models based on CBT principles and use large language models (LLMs) programmed with these cognitive models to act as a simulated therapy patient. We propose an interactive training scheme, PATIENT-$\\psi$-TRAINER, for mental health trainees to practice a key skill in CBT {--} formulating the cognitive model of the patient {--} through role-playing a therapy session with PATIENT-$\\psi$. To evaluate PATIENT-$\\psi$, we conducted a comprehensive user study of 13 mental health trainees and 20 experts. The results demonstrate that practice using PATIENT-$\\psi$-TRAINER enhances the perceived skill acquisition and confidence of the trainees beyond existing forms of training such as textbooks, videos, and role-play with non-patients. Based on the experts{'} perceptions, PATIENT-$\\psi$ is perceived to be closer to real patient interactions than GPT-4, and PATIENT-$\\psi$-TRAINER holds strong promise to improve trainee competencies. Our code and data are released at \\url{https://github.com/ruiyiw/patient-psi}."}
{"Title": "DKEC: Domain Knowledge Enhanced Multi-Label Classification for Diagnosis Prediction", "Abstract": "Multi-label text classification (MLTC) tasks in the medical domain often face the long-tail label distribution problem. Prior works have explored hierarchical label structures to find relevant information for few-shot classes, but mostly neglected to incorporate external knowledge from medical guidelines. This paper presents DKEC, Domain Knowledge Enhanced Classification for diagnosis prediction with two innovations: (1) automated construction of heterogeneous knowledge graphs from external sources to capture semantic relations among diverse medical entities, (2) incorporating the heterogeneous knowledge graphs in few-shot classification using a label-wise attention mechanism. We construct DKEC using three online medical knowledge sources and evaluate it on a real-world Emergency Medical Services (EMS) dataset and a public electronic health record (EHR) dataset. Results show that DKEC outperforms the state-of-the-art label-wise attention networks and transformer models of different sizes, particularly for the few-shot classes. More importantly, it helps the smaller language models achieve comparable performance to large language models."}
{"Title": ": Measuring Stereotypical Bias in Large Vision-Language Models from Vision and Language Modalities", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Large Language Models Can Self-Correct with Key Condition Verification", "Abstract": "Intrinsic self-correct was a method that instructed large language models (LLMs) to verify and correct their responses without external feedback. Unfortunately, the study concluded that the LLMs could not self-correct reasoning yet. We find that a simple yet effective prompting method enhances LLM performance in identifying and correcting inaccurate answers without external feedback.That is to mask a key condition in the question, add the current response to construct a verification question, and predict the condition to verify the response. The condition can be an entity in an open-domain question or a numerical value in an arithmetic question, which requires minimal effort (via prompting) to identify. We propose an iterative verify-then-correct framework to progressively identify and correct (probably) false responses, named ProCo. We conduct experiments on three reasoning tasks. On average, ProCo, with GPT-3.5-Turbo-1106 as the backend LLM, yields $+6.8$ exact match on four open-domain question answering datasets, $+14.1$ accuracy on three arithmetic reasoning datasets, and $+9.6$ accuracy on a commonsense reasoning dataset, compared to Self-Correct.Our implementation is made publicly available at https://wzy6642.github.io/proco.github.io/."}
{"Title": "Learning to Write Rationally: How Information Is Distributed in Non-native Speakers' Essays", "Abstract": "People tend to distribute information evenly in language production for better and clearer communication. In this study, we compared essays written by second language (L2) learners with various native language (L1) backgrounds to investigate how they distribute information in their non-native L2 production. Analyses of surprisal and constancy of entropy rate indicated that writers with higher L2 proficiency can reduce the expected uncertainty of language production while still conveying informative content. However, the uniformity of information distribution showed less variability among different groups of L2 speakers, suggesting that this feature may be universal in L2 essay writing and less affected by L2 writers{'} variability in L1 background and L2 proficiency."}
{"Title": "Defending Against Social Engineering Attacks in the Age of LLMs", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Heterogeneous LoRA for Federated Fine-tuning of On-Device Foundation Models", "Abstract": "Foundation models (FMs) adapt surprisingly well to downstream tasks with fine-tuning. However, their colossal parameter space prohibits their training on resource-constrained edge-devices. For federated fine-tuning, we need to consider the smaller FMs of few billion parameters at most, namely on-device FMs (ODFMs), which can be deployed on-device. Federated fine-tuning of ODFMs has unique challenges non-present in standard fine-tuning: i) ODFMs poorly generalize to downstream tasks due to their limited sizes making proper fine-tuning imperative to their performance, and ii) devices have limited and heterogeneous system capabilities and data that can deter the performance of fine-tuning.Tackling these challenges, we propose HetLoRA, a feasible and effective federated fine-tuning method for ODFMs that leverages the system and data heterogeneity at the edge. HetLoRA allows heterogeneous LoRA ranks across clients for their individual system resources, and efficiently aggregates and distributes these LoRA modules in a data-aware manner by applying rank self-pruning locally and sparsity-weighted aggregation at the server. It combines the advantages of high and low-rank LoRAs, achieving improved convergence speed and final performance compared to homogeneous LoRA. Furthermore, HetLoRA has enhanced computation and communication efficiency compared to full fine-tuning making it more feasible for the edge."}
{"Title": "Make Some Noise: Unlocking Language Model Parallel Inference Capability through Noisy Training", "Abstract": "Existing speculative decoding methods typically require additional model structure and training processes to assist the model for draft token generation. This makes the migration of acceleration methods to the new model more costly and more demanding on device memory. To address this problem, we propose the Make Some Noise (MSN) training framework as a replacement for the supervised fine-tuning stage of the large language model. The training method simply introduces some noise at the input for the model to learn the denoising task. It significantly enhances the parallel decoding capability of the model without affecting the original task capability. In addition, we propose a tree-based retrieval-augmented Jacobi (TR-Jacobi) decoding strategy to further improve the inference speed of MSN models. Experiments in both the general and code domains have shown that MSN can improve inference speed by 2.3-2.7x times without compromising model performance. The MSN model also achieves comparable acceleration ratios to the SOTA model with additional model structure on Spec-Bench."}
{"Title": "Target-Aware Language Modeling via Granular Data Sampling", "Abstract": "Language model pretraining generally targets a broad range of use cases and incorporates data from diverse sources. However, there are instances where we desire a model that excels in specific areas without markedly compromising performance in other areas. A cost-effective and straightforward approach is sampling with low-dimensional data features, which allows selecting large-scale pretraining data for domain-specific use cases. In this work, we revisit importance sampling with n-gram features consisting of multi-granular tokens, which strikes a good balance between sentence compression and representation capabilities. We observed the sampled data to have a high correlation with the target downstream task performance *while preserving its effectiveness on other tasks*. This leads to the proposed data sampling paradigm where language models can be pretrained more efficiently on selected documents. On eight benchmarks we demonstrate with {\\textasciitilde}1{\\%} of the data, pretrained models perform on par with the full RefinedWeb data and outperform randomly selected samples for model sizes ranging from 125M to 1.5B."}
{"Title": "SPEED++: A Multilingual Event Extraction Framework for Epidemic Prediction and Preparedness", "Abstract": "Social media is often the first place where communities discuss the latest societal trends. Prior works have utilized this platform to extract epidemic-related information (e.g. infections, preventive measures) to provide early warnings for epidemic prediction. However, these works only focused on English posts, while epidemics can occur anywhere in the world, and early discussions are often in the local, non-English languages. In this work, we introduce the first multilingual Event Extraction (EE) framework SPEED++ for extracting epidemic event information for any disease and language. To this end, we extend a previous epidemic ontology with 20 argument roles; and curate our multilingual EE dataset SPEED++ comprising 5.1K tweets in four languages for four diseases. Annotating data in every language is infeasible; thus we develop zero-shot cross-lingual cross-disease models (i.e., training only on English COVID data) utilizing multilingual pre-training and show their efficacy in extracting epidemic-related events for 65 diverse languages across different diseases. Experiments demonstrate that our framework can provide epidemic warnings for COVID-19 in its earliest stages in Dec 2019 (3 weeks before global discussions) from Chinese Weibo posts without any training in Chinese. Furthermore, we exploit our framework{'}s argument extraction capabilities to aggregate community epidemic discussions like symptoms and cure measures, aiding misinformation detection and public attention monitoring. Overall, we lay a strong foundation for multilingual epidemic preparedness."}
{"Title": "CoGen: Learning from Feedback with Coupled Comprehension and Generation", "Abstract": "Systems with both language comprehension and generation capabilities can benefit from the tight connection between the two. This work studies coupling comprehension and generation with focus on continually learning from interaction with users. We propose techniques to tightly integrate the two capabilities for both learning and inference. We situate our studies in two-player reference games, and deploy various models for thousands of interactions with human users, while learning from interaction feedback signals. We show dramatic improvements in performance over time, with comprehension-generation coupling leading to performance improvements up to 26{\\%} in absolute terms and up to 17{\\%} higher accuracies compared to a non-coupled system. Our analysis also shows coupling has substantial qualitative impact on the system{'}s language, making it significantly more human-like."}
{"Title": "UNICORN: A Unified Causal Video-Oriented Language-Modeling Framework for Temporal Video-Language Tasks", "Abstract": "The great success of large language models has encouraged the development of large multimodal models, with a focus on image-language interaction. Despite promising results in various image-language downstream tasks, it is still challenging and unclear how to extend the capabilities of these models to the more complex video domain, especially when dealing with explicit temporal signals. To address the problem in existing large multimodal models, in this paper we adopt visual instruction tuning to build a unified causal video-oriented language modeling framework, named UNICORN. Specifically, we collect a comprehensive dataset under the instruction-following format, and instruction-tune the model accordingly. Experimental results demonstrate that without customized training objectives and intensive pre-training, UNICORN can achieve comparable or better performance on established temporal video-language tasks including moment retrieval, video paragraph captioning and dense video captioning. Moreover, the instruction-tuned model can be used to automatically annotate internet videos with temporally-aligned captions. Compared to commonly used ASR captions, we show that training on our generated captions improves the performance of video-language models on both zero-shot and fine-tuning settings. Source code can be found at https://github.com/xyh97/UNICORN."}
{"Title": "Story Morals: Surfacing value-driven narrative schemas using large language models", "Abstract": "Stories are not only designed to entertain but encode lessons reflecting their authors{'} beliefs about the world. In this paper, we propose a new task of narrative schema labelling based on the concept of {``}story morals{''} to identify the values and lessons conveyed in stories. Using large language models (LLMs) such as GPT-4, we develop methods to automatically extract and validate story morals across a diverse set of narrative genres, including folktales, novels, movies and TV, personal stories from social media and the news. Our approach involves a multi-step prompting sequence to derive morals and validate them through both automated metrics and human assessments. The findings suggest that LLMs can effectively approximate human story moral interpretations and offer a new avenue for computational narrative understanding. By clustering the extracted morals on a sample dataset of folktales from around the world, we highlight the commonalities and distinctiveness of narrative values, providing preliminary insights into the distribution of values across cultures. This work opens up new possibilities for studying narrative schemas and their role in shaping human beliefs and behaviors."}
{"Title": "OATH-Frames: Characterizing Online Attitudes Towards Homelessness with LLM Assistants", "Abstract": "Warning: Contents of this paper may be upsetting.Public attitudes towards key societal issues, expressed on online media, are of immense value in policy and reform efforts, yet challenging to understand at scale. We study one such social issue: homelessness in the U.S., by leveraging the remarkable capabilities of large language models to assist social work experts in analyzing millions of posts from Twitter. We introduce a framing typology: Online Attitudes Towards Homelessness (OATH) Frames: nine hierarchical frames capturing critiques, responses and perceptions. We release annotations with varying degrees of assistance from language models, with immense benefits in scaling: 6.5{\\mbox{$\\times$}} speedup in annotation time while only incurring a 3 point F1 reduction in performance with respect to the domain experts. Our experiments demonstrate the value of modeling OATH-Frames over existing sentiment and toxicity classifiers. Our large-scale analysis with predicted OATH-Frames on 2.4M posts on homelessness reveal key trends in attitudes across states, time periods and vulnerable populations, enabling new insights on the issue. Our work provides a general framework to understand nuanced public attitudes at scale, on issues beyond homelessness."}
{"Title": "AnaloBench: Benchmarking the Identification of Abstract and Long-context Analogies", "Abstract": "Humans regularly engage in analogical thinking, relating personal experiences to current situations (X is analogous to Y because of Z). Analogical thinking allows humans to solve problems in creative ways, grasp difficult concepts, and articulate ideas more effectively. Can language models (LMs) do the same? To answer this question, we propose AnaloBench, a benchmark to determine analogical reasoning ability in LMs. Our benchmarking approach focuses on aspects of this ability that are common among humans: (i) recalling related experiences from a large amount of information, and (ii) applying analogical reasoning to complex and lengthy scenarios. We collect a set of 340 high quality, human written analogies for use in our benchmark, which constitutes the largest such collection to date. We then test a broad collection of models consisting of 12 open source and 3 proprietary in various sizes and architectures. As in prior results, scaling up LMs results in some performance boosts. Surprisingly, scale offers minimal gains when, (i) analogies involve lengthy scenarios, or (ii) recalling relevant scenarios from a large pool of information, a process analogous to finding a needle in a haystack. We hope these observations encourage further research in this field."}
{"Title": "SciER: An Entity and Relation Extraction Dataset for Datasets, Methods, and Tasks in Scientific Documents", "Abstract": "Scientific information extraction (SciIE) is critical for converting unstructured knowledge from scholarly articles into structured data (entities and relations). Several datasets have been proposed for training and validating SciIE models. However, due to the high complexity and cost of annotating scientific texts, those datasets restrict their annotations to specific parts of paper, such as abstracts, resulting in the loss of diverse entity mentions and relations in context. In this paper, we release a new entity and relation extraction dataset for entities related to datasets, methods, and tasks in scientific articles. Our dataset contains 106 manually annotated full-text scientific publications with over 24k entities and 12k relations. To capture the intricate use and interactions among entities in full texts, our dataset contains a fine-grained tag set for relations. Additionally, we provide an out-of-distribution test set to offer a more realistic evaluation. We conduct comprehensive experiments, including state-of-the-art supervised models and our proposed LLM-based baselines, and highlight the challenges presented by our dataset, encouraging the development of innovative models to further the field of SciIE."}
{"Title": "Analysis of Plan-based Retrieval for Grounded Text Generation", "Abstract": "In text generation, hallucinations refer to the generation of seemingly coherent text that contradicts established knowledge. One compelling hypothesis is that hallucinations occur when a language model is given a generation task outside its parametric knowledge (due to rarity, recency, domain, etc.). A common strategy to address this limitation is to infuse the language models with retrieval mechanisms, providing the model with relevant knowledge for the task. In this paper, we leverage the planning capabilities of instruction-tuned LLMs and analyze how planning can be used to guide retrieval to further reduce the frequency of hallucinations. We empirically evaluate several variations of our proposed approach on long-form text generation tasks. By improving the coverage of relevant facts, plan-guided retrieval and generation can produce more informative responses while providing a higher rate of attribution to source documents."}
{"Title": "Detecting Errors through Ensembling Prompts (DEEP): An End-to-End LLM Framework for Detecting Factual Errors", "Abstract": "Accurate text summarization is one of the most common and important tasks performed by Large Language Models, where the costs of human review for an entire document may be high, but the costs of errors in summarization may be even greater. We propose Detecting Errors through Ensembling Prompts (DEEP) - an end-to-end large language model framework for detecting factual errors in text summarization. Our framework uses a diverse set of LLM prompts to identify factual inconsistencies, treating their outputs as binary features, which are then fed into ensembling models. We then calibrate the ensembled models to produce empirically accurate probabilities that a text is factually consistent or free of hallucination. We demonstrate that prior models for detecting factual errors in summaries perform significantly worse without optimizing the thresholds on subsets of the evaluated dataset. Our framework achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) balanced accuracy on the AggreFact-XSUM FTSOTA, TofuEval Summary-Level, and HaluEval Summarization benchmarks in detecting factual errors within transformer-generated text summaries. It does so without any fine-tuning of the language model or reliance on thresholding techniques not available in practical settings."}
{"Title": "RLHF Can Speak Many Languages: Unlocking Multilingual Preference Optimization for LLMs", "Abstract": "Preference optimization techniques have become a standard final stage for training state-of-art large language models (LLMs). However, despite widespread adoption, the vast majority of work to-date has focused on a small set of high-resource languages like English and Chinese. This captures a small fraction of the languages in the world, but also makes it unclear which aspects of current state-of-the-art research transfer to a multilingual setting. In this work, we perform an exhaustive study to achieve a new state of the art in aligning multilingual LLMs. We introduce a novel, scalable method for generating high-quality multilingual feedback data to balance data coverage. We establish the benefits of cross-lingual transfer and increased dataset size in preference training. Our preference-trained model achieves a 54.4{\\%} win-rate against Aya 23 8B, the current state-of-the-art multilingual LLM in its parameter class, and a 69.5{\\%} win-rate or higher against widely used models like Gemma, Mistral and Llama 3. As a result of our efforts, we expand the frontier of alignment techniques to 23 languages, covering approximately half of the world{'}s population."}
{"Title": "Boosting Logical Fallacy Reasoning in LLMs via Logical Structure Tree", "Abstract": "Logical fallacy uses invalid or faulty reasoning in the construction of a statement. Despite the prevalence and harmfulness of logical fallacies, detecting and classifying logical fallacies still remains a challenging task. We observe that logical fallacies often use connective words to indicate an intended logical relation between two arguments, while the argument semantics does not actually support the logical relation. Inspired by this observation, we propose to build a logical structure tree to explicitly represent and track the hierarchical logic flow among relation connectives and their arguments in a statement. Specifically, this logical structure tree is constructed in an unsupervised manner guided by the constituency tree and a taxonomy of connectives for ten common logical relations, with relation connectives as non-terminal nodes and textual arguments as terminal nodes, and the latter are mostly elementary discourse units. We further develop two strategies to incorporate the logical structure tree into LLMs for fallacy reasoning. Firstly, we transform the tree into natural language descriptions and feed the textualized tree into LLMs as a part of the hard text prompt. Secondly, we derive a relation-aware tree embedding and insert the tree embedding into LLMs as a soft prompt. Experiments on benchmark datasets demonstrate that our approach based on logical structure tree significantly improves precision and recall for both fallacy detection and fallacy classification."}
{"Title": "Chain and Causal Attention for Efficient Entity Tracking", "Abstract": "This paper investigates the limitations of transformers for entity-tracking tasks in large language models. We identify a theoretical constraint, showing that transformers require at least $\\log_2 (n+1)$ layers to handle entity tracking with $n$ state changes. To address this issue, we propose an efficient and frugal enhancement to the standard attention mechanism, enabling it to manage long-term dependencies more efficiently. By considering attention as an adjacency matrix, our model can track entity states with a single layer.Empirical results demonstrate significant improvements in entity tracking datasets while keeping competitive performance on standard natural language modeling. Our modified attention allows us to achieve the same performance with drastically fewer layers. Additionally, our enhanced mechanism reveals structured internal representations of attention. Extensive experiments on both toy and complex datasets validate our approach. Our contributions include theoretical insights, an improved attention mechanism, and empirical validation."}
{"Title": "BEEAR: Embedding-based Adversarial Removal of Safety Backdoors in Instruction-tuned Language Models", "Abstract": "Safety backdoor attacks in large language models (LLMs) enable harmful behaviors to be stealthily triggered while evading detection during normal interactions. The high dimensionality of the trigger search space and the diverse range of potential malicious behaviors in LLMs make this a critical open problem. This paper presents BEEAR, a novel mitigation method based on a key insight: backdoor triggers induce a uniform drift in the model{'}s embedding space, irrespective of the trigger{'}s form or targeted behavior. Leveraging this observation, we introduce a bi-level optimization approach. The inner level identifies universal perturbations to the decoder{'}s embeddings that steer the model towards defender-defined unwanted behaviors; the outer level fine-tunes the model to reinforce safe behaviors against these perturbations. Our experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach, reducing the success rate of safety backdoor attacks from over 95{\\%} to {\\textless}1{\\%} for general harmful behaviors and from 47{\\%} to 0{\\%} for Sleeper Agents, without compromising the model{'}s helpfulness. Notably, our method relies only on defender-defined sets of safe and unwanted behaviors without any assumptions about the trigger location or attack mechanism. This work represents the first practical framework to counter safety backdoors in LLMs and provides a foundation for future advancements in AI safety and security."}
{"Title": "A Bayesian Approach to Harnessing the Power of LLMs in Authorship Attribution", "Abstract": "Authorship attribution aims to identify the origin or author of a document. Traditional approaches have heavily relied on manual features and fail to capture long-range correlations, limiting their effectiveness. Recent advancements leverage text embeddings from pre-trained language models, which require significant fine-tuning on labeled data, posing challenges in data dependency and limited interpretability. Large Language Models (LLMs), with their deep reasoning capabilities and ability to maintain long-range textual associations, offer a promising alternative. This study explores the potential of pre-trained LLMs in one-shot authorship attribution, specifically utilizing Bayesian approaches and probability outputs of LLMs. Our methodology calculates the probability that a text entails previous writings of an author, reflecting a more nuanced understanding of authorship. By utilizing only pre-trained models such as Llama-3-70B, our results on the IMDb and blog datasets show an impressive 85{\\%} accuracy in one-shot authorship classification across ten authors. Our findings set new baselines for one-shot authorship analysis using LLMs and expand the application scope of these models in forensic linguistics. This work also includes extensive ablation studies to validate our approach."}
{"Title": "FAC^2E: Better Understanding Large Language Model Capabilities by Dissociating Language and Cognition", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are primarily evaluated by overall performance on various text understanding and generation tasks. However, such a paradigm fails to comprehensively differentiate the fine-grained language and cognitive skills, rendering the lack of sufficient interpretation to LLMs{'} capabilities. In this paper, we present FAC$^2$E, a framework for Fine-grAined and Cognition-grounded LLMs{'} Capability Evaluation. Specifically, we formulate LLMs{'} evaluation in a multi-dimensional and explainable manner by dissociating the language-related capabilities and the cognition-related ones. Besides, through extracting the intermediate reasoning from LLMs, we further break down the process of applying a specific capability into three sub-steps: recalling relevant knowledge, utilizing knowledge, and solving problems. Finally, FAC$^2$E evaluates each sub-step of each fine-grained capability, providing a two-faceted diagnosis for LLMs. Utilizing FAC$^2$E, we identify a common shortfall in knowledge utilization among models and propose a straightforward, knowledge-enhanced method to mitigate this issue. Our results not only showcase promising performance enhancements but also highlight a direction for future LLM advancements."}
{"Title": "OpenSep: Leveraging Large Language Models with Textual Inversion for Open World Audio Separation", "Abstract": "Audio separation in real-world scenarios, where mixtures contain a variable number of sources, presents significant challenges due to limitations of existing models, such as over-separation, under-separation, and dependence on predefined training sources. We propose OpenSep, a novel framework that leverages large language models (LLMs) for automated audio separation, eliminating the need for manual intervention and overcoming source limitations. OpenSep uses textual inversion to generate captions from audio mixtures with off-the-shelf audio captioning models, effectively parsing the sound sources present. It then employs few-shot LLM prompting to extract detailed audio properties of each parsed source, facilitating separation in unseen mixtures. Additionally, we introduce a multi-level extension of the mix-and-separate training framework to enhance modality alignment by separating single source sounds and mixtures simultaneously. Extensive experiments demonstrate OpenSep{'}s superiority in precisely separating new, unseen, and variable sources in challenging mixtures, outperforming SOTA baseline methods. Code is released at https://github.com/tanvir-utexas/OpenSep.git."}
{"Title": "Language Concept Erasure for Language-invariant Dense Retrieval", "Abstract": "Multilingual models aim for language-invariant representations but still prominently encode language identity. This, along with the scarcity of high-quality parallel retrieval data, limits their performance in retrieval. We introduce LANCER, a multi-task learning framework that improves language-invariant dense retrieval by reducing language-specific signals in the embedding space. Leveraging the notion of linear concept erasure, we design a loss function that penalizes cross-correlation between representations and their language labels. LANCER leverages only English retrieval data and general multilingual corpora, training models to focus on language-invariant retrieval by semantic similarity without necessitating a vast parallel corpus. Experimental results on various datasets show our method consistently improves over baselines, with extensive analyses demonstrating greater language agnosticism."}
{"Title": "Learning Personalized Alignment for Evaluating Open-ended Text Generation", "Abstract": "Recent research has increasingly focused on evaluating large language models{'} (LLMs) alignment with diverse human values and preferences, particularly for open-ended tasks like story generation. Traditional evaluation metrics rely heavily on lexical similarity with human-written references, often showing poor correlation with human judgments and failing to account for alignment with the diversity of human preferences. To address these challenges, we introduce PerSE, an interpretable evaluation framework designed to assess alignment with specific human preferences. It is tuned to infer specific preferences from an in-context personal profile and evaluate the alignment between the generated content and personal preferences. PerSE enhances interpretability by providing detailed comments and fine-grained scoring, facilitating more personalized content generation. Our 13B LLaMA-2-based PerSE shows a 15.8{\\%} increase in Kendall correlation and a 13.7{\\%} rise in accuracy with zero-shot reviewers compared to GPT-4. It also outperforms GPT-4 by 46.01{\\%} in Kendall correlation on new domains, indicating its transferability"}
{"Title": "Large Language Models Are Involuntary Truth-Tellers: Exploiting Fallacy Failure for Jailbreak Attacks", "Abstract": "We find that language models have difficulties generating fallacious and deceptive reasoning. When asked to generate deceptive outputs, language models tend to leak honest counterparts but believe them to be false. Exploiting this deficiency, we propose a jailbreak attack method that elicits an aligned language model for malicious output. Specifically, we query the model to generate a fallacious yet deceptively real procedure for the harmful behavior. Since a fallacious procedure is generally considered fake and thus harmless by LLMs, it helps bypass the safeguard mechanism. Yet the output is factually harmful since the LLM cannot fabricate fallacious solutions but proposes truthful ones. We evaluate our approach over five safety-aligned large language models, comparing four previous jailbreak methods, and show that our approach achieves competitive performance with more harmful outputs. We believe the findings could be extended beyond model safety, such as self-verification and hallucination."}
{"Title": "Turn Waste into Worth: Rectifying Top-k Router of MoE", "Abstract": "Sparse Mixture of Experts (MoE) models are popular for training large language models due to their computational efficiency. However, the commonly used top-$k$ routing mechanism suffers from redundancy computation and memory costs due to the unbalanced routing. Some experts are overflow, where the exceeding tokens are dropped. While some experts are empty, which are padded with zeros, negatively impacting model performance. To address the dropped tokens and padding, we propose the Rectify-Router, comprising the Intra-GPU Rectification and the Fill-in Rectification. The Intra-GPU Rectification handles dropped tokens, efficiently routing them to experts within the GPU where they are located to avoid inter-GPU communication. The Fill-in Rectification addresses padding by replacing padding tokens with the tokens that have high routing scores. Our experimental results demonstrate that the Intra-GPU Rectification and the Fill-in Rectification effectively handle dropped tokens and padding, respectively. Furthermore, the combination of them achieves superior performance, surpassing the accuracy of the vanilla top-1 router by 4.7{\\%}."}
{"Title": "Null-Shot Prompting: Rethinking Prompting Large Language Models With Hallucination", "Abstract": "This paper presents a series of investigations into an interesting phenomenon where we observe performance increases in large language models (LLMs) when providing a prompt that causes and exploits hallucination. We propose null-shot prompting, a counter-intuitive approach where we intentionally instruct LLMs to look at and utilize information from a null section. We investigate null-shot prompting on a wide range of tasks, including arithmetic reasoning, commonsense reasoning, and reading comprehension. We observe a substantial increase in performance in arithmetic reasoning tasks for various models, with up to a 44.62{\\%} increase compared to a baseline in one model. Therefore, we investigate deeper into this task by utilizing a more challenging mathematics problem-solving benchmark. We observe that LLMs benefit from hallucination in null-shot prompting in this task and discuss the mathematical topics that benefit the most from introducing hallucination in the prompt. We continue our investigation by evaluating hallucination detection abilities of the LLMs when using null-shot prompting. We find surprising results where hallucination in prompts can improve hallucination detection abilities of many LLMs. We also examine the effects of introducing both reasoning, which is known to mitigate hallucination, and hallucination simultaneously in the prompt and observe another surprising turn for the mathematics problem-solving benchmark with many performance improvements. We hope this paper will spark more interest, investigations, and discussions on how hallucination in prompts LLMs and even bolsters them in certain cases."}
{"Title": "CommVQA: Situating Visual Question Answering in Communicative Contexts", "Abstract": "Current visual question answering (VQA) models tend to be trained and evaluated on image-question pairs in isolation. However, the questions people ask are dependent on their informational needs and prior knowledge about the image content. To evaluate how situating images within naturalistic contexts shapes visual questions, we introduce CommVQA, a VQA dataset consisting of images, image descriptions, real-world communicative scenarios where the image might appear (e.g., a travel website), and follow-up questions and answers conditioned on the scenario and description. CommVQA, which contains 1000 images and 8,949 question-answer pairs, poses a challenge for current models. Error analyses and a human-subjects study suggest that generated answers still contain high rates of hallucinations, fail to fittingly address unanswerable questions, and don{'}t suitably reflect contextual information."}
{"Title": "Ouroboros: Generating Longer Drafts Phrase by Phrase for Faster Speculative Decoding", "Abstract": "Speculative decoding is a widely used method that accelerates the generation process of large language models (LLMs) with no compromise in model performance. It achieves this goal by using an existing smaller model for drafting and then employing the target LLM to verify the draft in a low-cost parallel manner. Under such a drafting-verification framework, drafting efficiency has become a bottleneck in the final speedup of speculative decoding. Therefore, generating longer drafts at less cost can lead to better decoding speedup. To achieve this, we introduce Ouroboros, which can generate draft phrases to parallelize the drafting process and meanwhile lengthen drafts in a training-free manner. The experimental results on various typical text generation tasks show that Ouroboros can achieve speedups of up to $2.4\\times$ over speculative decoding and $3.9\\times$ over vanilla decoding, without fine-tuning draft and target models. Code available at https://github.com/thunlp/Ouroboros."}
{"Title": "1+12: Can Large Language Models Serve as Cross-Lingual Knowledge Aggregators?", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have garnered significant attention due to their remarkable ability to process information across various languages. Despite their capabilities, they exhibit inconsistencies in handling identical queries in different languages, presenting challenges for further advancement. This paper introduces a method to enhance the multilingual performance of LLMs by aggregating knowledge from diverse languages. This approach incorporates a low-resource knowledge detector specific to a language, a strategic language selection process, and mechanisms for answer replacement and integration. Our extensive experiments demonstrate notable performance improvements, particularly in reducing the performance disparity across languages. An ablation study confirms that each component of our method significantly contributes to these enhancements. This research highlights the inherent potential of LLMs to harmonize multilingual capabilities and offers valuable insights for further exploration."}
{"Title": "How to Leverage Demonstration Data in Alignment for Large Language Model? A Self-Imitation Learning Perspective", "Abstract": "This paper introduces a novel generalized self-imitation learning GSIL framework, which effectively and efficiently aligns large language models with offline demonstration data. We develop GSIL by deriving a surrogate objective of imitation learning with density ratio estimates, facilitating the use of self-generated data and optimizing the imitation learning objective with simple classification losses. GSIL eliminates the need for complex adversarial training in standard imitation learning, achieving lightweight and efficient fine-tuning for large language models. In addition, GSIL encompasses a family of offline losses parameterized by a general class of convex functions for density ratio estimation and enables a unified view for alignment with demonstration data. Extensive experiments show that GSIL consistently and significantly outperforms baselines in many challenging benchmarks, such as coding (HuamnEval), mathematical reasoning (GSM8K) and instruction-following benchmark (MT-Bench). Code is public available at https://github.com/tengxiao1/GSIL."}
{"Title": "Style-Specific Neurons for Steering LLMs in Text Style Transfer", "Abstract": "Text style transfer (TST) aims to modify the style of a text without altering its original meaning. Large language models (LLMs) demonstrate superior performance across multiple tasks, including TST. However, in zero-shot setups, they tend to directly copy a significant portion of the input text to the output without effectively changing its style. To enhance the stylistic variety and fluency of the text, we present sNeuron-TST, a novel approach for steering LLMs using style-specific neurons in TST. Specifically, we identify neurons associated with the source and target styles and deactivate source-style-only neurons to give target-style words a higher probability, aiming to enhance the stylistic diversity of the generated text. However, we find that this deactivation negatively impacts the fluency of the generated text, which we address by proposing an improved contrastive decoding method that accounts for rapid token probability shifts across layers caused by deactivated source-style neurons. Empirical experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method on six benchmarks, encompassing formality, toxicity, politics, politeness, authorship, and sentiment."}
{"Title": "Adaptive Query Rewriting: Aligning Rewriters through Marginal Probability of Conversational Answers", "Abstract": "Query rewriting is a crucial technique for passage retrieval in open-domain conversational question answering (CQA). It decontexualizes conversational queries into self-contained questions suitable for off-the-shelf retrievers. Existing methods attempt to incorporate retriever{'}s preference during the training of rewriting models. However, these approaches typically rely on extensive annotations such as in-domain rewrites and/or relevant passage labels, limiting the models{'} generalization and adaptation capabilities. In this paper, we introduce AdaQR (Adaptive Query Rewriting), a framework for training query rewriting models with limited rewrite annotations from seed datasets and completely no passage label. Our approach begins by fine-tuning compact large language models using only 10{\\%} of rewrite annotations from the seed dataset training split. The models are then utilized to self-sample rewrite candidates for each query instance, further eliminating the expense for human labeling or larger language model prompting often adopted in curating preference data. A novel approach is then proposed to assess retriever{'}s preference for these candidates with the probability of answers conditioned on the conversational query by marginalizing the Top-$K$ passages. This serves as the reward for optimizing the rewriter further using Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), a process free of rewrite and retrieval annotations. Experimental results on four open-domain CQA datasets demonstrate that AdaQR not only enhances the in-domain capabilities of the rewriter with limited annotation requirement, but also adapts effectively to out-of-domain datasets."}
{"Title": "Grasping the Essentials: Tailoring Large Language Models for Zero-Shot Relation Extraction", "Abstract": "Relation extraction (RE) aims to identify semantic relationships between entities within text. Despite considerable advancements, existing models predominantly require extensive annotated training data, which is both costly and labor-intensive to collect. Moreover, these models often struggle to adapt to new or unseen relations. Few-shot learning, aiming to lessen annotation demands, typically provides incomplete and biased supervision for target relations, leading to degraded and unstable performance. To accurately and explicitly describe relation semantics while minimizing annotation demands, we explore the definition only zero-shot RE setting where only relation definitions expressed in natural language are used to train a RE model. We introduce REPaL, comprising three stages: (1) We leverage large language models (LLMs) to generate initial seed instances from relation definitions and an unlabeled corpus. (2) We fine-tune a bidirectional Small Language Model (SLM) with initial seeds to learn relations for the target domain. (3) We expand pattern coverage and mitigate bias from initial seeds by integrating feedback from the SLM{'}s predictions on the unlabeled corpus and the synthesis history. To accomplish this, we leverage the multi-turn conversation ability of LLMs to generate new instances in follow-up dialogues, informed by both the feedback and synthesis history. Studies reveal that definition-oriented seed synthesis enhances pattern coverage whereas indiscriminately increasing seed quantity leads to performance saturation. Experiments on two datasets show REPaL significantly improved cost-effective zero-shot performance by large margins."}
{"Title": "DA-Code: Agent Data Science Code Generation Benchmark for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "We introduce DA-Code, a code generation benchmark specifically designed to assess LLMs on agent-based data science tasks. This benchmark features three core elements: First, the tasks within DA-Code are inherently challenging, setting them apart from traditional code generation tasks and demanding advanced coding skills in grounding and planning. Second, examples in DA-Code are all based on real and diverse data, covering a wide range of complex data wrangling and analytics tasks. Third, to solve the tasks, the models must utilize complex data science programming languages, including Python and SQL, to perform intricate data processing and derive the answers. We set up the benchmark in a controllable and executable environment that aligns with real-world data analysis scenarios and is scalable. The annotators meticulously designed the evaluation suite to ensure the accuracy and robustness of the evaluation. We developed the DA-Agent baseline. Experiments show that although the baseline performs better than other existing frameworks, using the current best LLMs achieves only 30.5{\\%} accuracy, leaving ample room for improvement. We release our benchmark at [link](https://github.com/yiyihum/dabench)"}
{"Title": "Leveraging Context-Aware Prompting for Commit Message Generation", "Abstract": "Writing comprehensive commit messages is tedious yet important, because these messages describe changes of code, such as fixing bugs or adding new features. However, most existing methods focus on either only the changed lines or nearest context lines, without considering the effectiveness of selecting useful contexts. On the other hand, it is possible that introducing excessive contexts can lead to noise. To this end, we propose a code model COMMIT (Context-aware prOMpting based comMIt-message generaTion) in conjunction with a code dataset CODEC (COntext and metaData Enhanced Code dataset). Leveraging program slicing, CODEC consolidates code changes along with related contexts via property graph analysis. Further, utilizing CodeT5+ as the backbone model, we train COMMIT via context-aware prompt on CODEC. Experiments show that COMMIT can surpass all compared models including pre-trained language models for code (code-PLMs) such as CommitBART and large language models for code (code-LLMs) such as Code-LlaMa. Besides, we investigate several research questions (RQs), further verifying the effectiveness of our approach. We release the data and code at: https://github.com/Jnunlplab/COMMIT.git."}
{"Title": "Linguistic Bias in ChatGPT: Language Models Reinforce Dialect Discrimination", "Abstract": "We present a large-scale study of linguistic bias exhibited by ChatGPT covering ten dialects of English (Standard American English, Standard British English, and eight widely spoken non-{''}standard{''} varieties from around the world). We prompted GPT-3.5 Turbo and GPT-4 with text by native speakers of each variety and analyzed the responses via detailed linguistic feature annotation and native speaker evaluation. We find that the models default to {``}standard{''} varieties of English; based on evaluation by native speakers, we also find that model responses to non-{''}standard{''} varieties consistently exhibit a range of issues: stereotyping (19{\\%} worse than for {``}standard{''} varieties), demeaning content (25{\\%} worse), lack of comprehension (9{\\%} worse), and condescending responses (15{\\%} worse). Moreover, if these models are asked to imitate the writing style of prompts in non-{''}standard{''} varieties, they produce text that exhibits lower comprehension of the input and is especially prone to stereotyping. GPT-4 improves on GPT-3.5 in terms of comprehension, warmth, and friendliness, but also exhibits a marked increase in stereotyping (+18{\\%}). The results indicate that GPT-3.5 Turbo and GPT-4 can perpetuate linguistic discrimination toward speakers of non-{''}standard{''} varieties."}
{"Title": "Lifelong Knowledge Editing for LLMs with Retrieval-Augmented Continuous Prompt Learning", "Abstract": "Model editing aims to correct outdated or erroneous knowledge in large language models (LLMs) without the need for costly retraining. Lifelong model editing is the most challenging task that caters to the continuous editing requirements of LLMs. Prior works primarily focus on single or batch editing; nevertheless, these methods fall short in lifelong editing scenarios due to catastrophic knowledge forgetting and the degradation of model performance. Although retrieval-based methods alleviate these issues, they are impeded by slow and cumbersome processes of integrating the retrieved knowledge into the model. In this work, we introduce RECIPE, a RetriEval-augmented ContInuous Prompt lEarning method, to boost editing efficacy and inference efficiency in lifelong learning. RECIPE first converts knowledge statements into short and informative continuous prompts, prefixed to the LLM{'}s input query embedding, to efficiently refine the response grounded on the knowledge. It further integrates the Knowledge Sentinel (KS) that acts as an intermediary to calculate a dynamic threshold, determining whether the retrieval repository contains relevant knowledge. Our retriever and prompt encoder are jointly trained to achieve editing properties, i.e., reliability, generality, and locality. In our experiments, RECIPE is assessed extensively across multiple LLMs and editing datasets, where it achieves superior editing performance. RECIPE also demonstrates its capability to maintain the overall performance of LLMs alongside showcasing fast editing and inference speed."}
{"Title": "A Learning Rate Path Switching Training Paradigm for Version Updates of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Due to the continuous emergence of new data, version updates have become an indispensable requirement for Large Language Models (LLMs). The training paradigms for version updates of LLMs include pre-training from scratch (PTFS) and continual pre-training (CPT). Preliminary experiments demonstrate that PTFS achieves better pre-training performance, while CPT has lower training cost. Moreover, their performance and training cost gaps widen progressively with version updates. To investigate the underlying reasons for this phenomenon, we analyze the effect of learning rate adjustments during the two stages of CPT: preparing an initialization checkpoint and continual pre-training based on this checkpoint. We find that a large learning rate in the first stage and a complete learning rate decay process in the second stage are crucial for version updates of LLMs. Hence, we propose a learning rate path switching training paradigm. Our paradigm comprises one main path, where we pre-train a LLM with the maximal learning rate, and multiple branching paths, each of which corresponds to an update of the LLM with newly-added training data. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness and generalization of our paradigm. Particularly, when training four versions of LLMs, our paradigm reduces the total training cost to 58{\\%} compared to PTFS, while maintaining comparable pre-training performance."}
{"Title": "Zero-Shot Cross-Lingual NER Using Phonemic Representations for Low-Resource Languages", "Abstract": "Existing zero-shot cross-lingual NER approaches require substantial prior knowledge of the target language, which is impractical for low-resource languages.In this paper, we propose a novel approach to NER using phonemic representation based on the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) to bridge the gap between representations of different languages.Our experiments show that our method significantly outperforms baseline models in extremely low-resource languages, with the highest average F1 score (46.38{\\%}) and lowest standard deviation (12.67), particularly demonstrating its robustness with non-Latin scripts. Ourcodes are available at https://github.com/Gabriel819/zeroshot{\\_}ner.git"}
{"Title": "An Analysis and Mitigation of the Reversal Curse", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Exploring the Practicality of Generative Retrieval on Dynamic Corpora", "Abstract": "Benchmarking the performance of information retrieval (IR) is mostly conducted with a fixed set of documents (static corpora). However, in realistic scenarios, this is rarely the case and the documents to be retrieved are constantly updated and added. In this paper, we focus on Generative Retrievals (GR), which apply autoregressive language models to IR problems, and explore their adaptability and robustness in dynamic scenarios. We also conduct an extensive evaluation of computational and memory efficiency, crucial factors for real-world deployment of IR systems handling vast and ever-changing document collections. Our results on the StreamingQA benchmark demonstrate that GR is more adaptable to evolving knowledge (4{--}11{\\%}), robust in learning knowledge with temporal information, and efficient in terms of inference FLOPs (x2), indexing time (x6), and storage footprint (x4) compared to Dual Encoders (DE), which are commonly used in retrieval systems. Our paper highlights the potential of GR for future use in practical IR systems within dynamic environments."}
{"Title": "OneNet: A Fine-Tuning Free Framework for Few-Shot Entity Linking via Large Language Model Prompting", "Abstract": "Entity Linking (EL) is the process of associating ambiguous textual mentions to specific entities in a knowledge base.Traditional EL methods heavily rely on large datasets to enhance their performance, a dependency that becomes problematic in the context of few-shot entity linking, where only a limited number of examples are available for training. To address this challenge, we present OneNet, an innovative framework that utilizes the few-shot learning capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) without the need for fine-tuning. To the best of our knowledge, this marks a pioneering approach to applying LLMs to few-shot entity linking tasks. OneNet is structured around three key components prompted by LLMs: (1) an entity reduction processor that simplifies inputs by summarizing and filtering out irrelevant entities, (2) a dual-perspective entity linker that combines contextual cues and prior knowledge for precise entity linking, and (3) an entity consensus judger that employs a unique consistency algorithm to alleviate the hallucination in the entity linking reasoning.Comprehensive evaluations across seven benchmark datasets reveal that OneNet outperforms current state-of-the-art entity linking methods."}
{"Title": "Don't Just Say \u201cI don't know\u201d! Self-aligning Large Language Models for Responding to Unknown Questions with Explanations", "Abstract": "Despite the remarkable abilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) to answer questions, they often display a considerable level of overconfidence even when the question does not have a definitive answer. To avoid providing hallucinated answers to these unknown questions, existing studies typically investigate approaches to refusing to answer these questions. In this work, we propose a novel and scalable self-alignment method to utilize the LLM itself to enhance its response-ability to different types of unknown questions, being capable of not just refusing to answer but further proactively providing explanations to the unanswerability of unknown questions. Specifically, the Self-Align method first employ a two-stage class-aware self-augmentation approach to generate a large amount of unknown question-response data. Then we conduct disparity-driven self-curation to select qualified data for fine-tuning the LLM itself for aligning the responses to unknown questions as desired. Experimental results on two datasets across four types of unknown questions validate the superiority of the Self-Aligned method over existing baselines in terms of three types of task formulation."}
{"Title": "Fewer is More: Boosting Math Reasoning with Reinforced Context Pruning", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown impressive capabilities, yet they still struggle with math reasoning. In this work, we propose CoT-Influx, a novel approach that pushes the boundary of few-shot Chain-of-Thoughts (CoT) learning to improve LLM mathematical reasoning. Motivated by the observation that adding more concise CoT examples in the prompt can improve LLM reasoning performance, CoT-Influx employs a coarse-to-fine pruner to maximize the input of effective and concise CoT examples. The pruner first selects as many crucial CoT examples as possible and then prunes unimportant tokens to fit the context window. As a result, by enabling more CoT examples with double the context window size in tokens, CoT-Influx significantly outperforms various prompting baselines across various LLMs (LLaMA2-7B, 13B, 70B) and 5 math datasets, achieving up to 4.55{\\%} absolute improvements. Remarkably, without any fine-tuning, LLaMA2-70B with CoT-Influx surpasses GPT-3.5 and a wide range of larger LLMs (PaLM, Minerva 540B, etc.) on the GSM8K. CoT-Influx is a plug-and-play module for LLMs, adaptable in various scenarios. It{'}s compatible with advanced reasoning prompting techniques, such as self-consistency, and supports different long-context LLMs, including Mistral-7B-v0.3-32K and Yi-6B-200K."}
{"Title": "Large Language Models Are Poor Clinical Decision-Makers: A Comprehensive Benchmark", "Abstract": "The adoption of large language models (LLMs) to assist clinicians has attracted remarkable attention. Existing works mainly adopt the close-ended question-answering (QA) task with answer options for evaluation. However, many clinical decisions involve answering open-ended questions without pre-set options. To better understand LLMs in the clinic, we construct a benchmark ClinicBench. We first collect eleven existing datasets covering diverse clinical language generation, understanding, and reasoning tasks. Furthermore, we construct six novel datasets and clinical tasks that are complex but common in real-world practice, e.g., open-ended decision-making, long document processing, and emerging drug analysis. We conduct an extensive evaluation of twenty-two LLMs under both zero-shot and few-shot settings. Finally, we invite medical experts to evaluate the clinical usefulness of LLMs"}
{"Title": "Holistic Automated Red Teaming for Large Language Models through Top-Down Test Case Generation and Multi-turn Interaction", "Abstract": "Automated red teaming is an effective method for identifying misaligned behaviors in large language models (LLMs). Existing approaches, however, often focus primarily on improving attack success rates while overlooking the need for comprehensive test case coverage. Additionally, most of these methods are limited to single-turn red teaming, failing to capture the multi-turn dynamics of real-world human-machine interactions. To overcome these limitations, we propose **HARM** (**H**olistic **A**utomated **R**ed tea**M**ing), which scales up the diversity of test cases using a top-down approach based on an extensible, fine-grained risk taxonomy. Our method also leverages a novel fine-tuning strategy and reinforcement learning techniques to facilitate multi-turn adversarial probing in a human-like manner. Experimental results demonstrate that our framework enables a more systematic understanding of model vulnerabilities and offers more targeted guidance for the alignment process."}
{"Title": "Householder Pseudo-Rotation: A Novel Approach to Activation Editing in LLMs with Direction-Magnitude Perspective", "Abstract": "Activation Editing, which involves directly editting the internal representations of large language models (LLMs) to alter their behavior and achieve desired properties, has emerged as a promising area of research. Existing works primarily treat LLMs{'} activations as points in space and modify them by adding steering vectors. We show that doing so would break the magnitude consistency of the activation vectors in LLMs. To overcome this shortcoming, we propose a novel editing method that views activations in terms of their directions and magnitudes. Our method, which we name Householder Pseudo-Rotation (HPR), mimics the rotation transformation, thus preserving activation norm and resulting in an improved performance on various safety benchmarks."}
{"Title": "DynamicER: Resolving Emerging Mentions to Dynamic Entities for RAG", "Abstract": "In the rapidly evolving landscape of language, resolving new linguistic expressions in continuously updating knowledge bases remains a formidable challenge. This challenge becomes critical in retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) with knowledge bases, as emerging expressions hinder the retrieval of relevant documents, leading to generator hallucinations. To address this issue, we introduce a novel task aimed at resolving emerging mentions to dynamic entities and present DynamicER benchmark. Our benchmark includes dynamic entity mention resolution and entity-centric knowledge-intensive QA task, evaluating entity linking and RAG model{'}s adaptability to new expressions, respectively. We discovered that current entity linking models struggle to link these new expressions to entities. Therefore, we propose a temporal segmented clustering method with continual adaptation, effectively managing the temporal dynamics of evolving entities and emerging mentions. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms existing baselines, enhancing RAG model performance on QA task with resolved mentions."}
{"Title": "Preserving Generalization of Language models in Few-shot Continual Relation Extraction", "Abstract": "Few-shot Continual Relations Extraction (FCRE) is an emerging and dynamic area of study where models can sequentially integrate knowledge from new relations with limited labeled data while circumventing catastrophic forgetting and preserving prior knowledge from pre-trained backbones. In this work, we introduce a novel method that leverages often-discarded language model heads. By employing these components via a mutual information maximization strategy, our approach helps maintain prior knowledge from the pre-trained backbone and strategically aligns the primary classification head, thereby enhancing model performance. Furthermore, we explore the potential of Large Language Models (LLMs), renowned for their wealth of knowledge, in addressing FCRE challenges. Our comprehensive experimental results underscore the efficacy of the proposed method and offer valuable insights for future work."}
{"Title": "A Systematic Survey and Critical Review on Evaluating Large Language Models: Challenges, Limitations, and Recommendations", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently gained significant attention due to their remarkable capabilities in performing diverse tasks across various domains. However, a thorough evaluation of these models is crucial before deploying them in real-world applications to ensure they produce reliable performance. Despite the well-established importance of evaluating LLMs in the community, the complexity of the evaluation process has led to varied evaluation setups, causing inconsistencies in findings and interpretations. To address this, we systematically review the primary challenges and limitations causing these inconsistencies and unreliable evaluations in various steps of LLM evaluation. Based on our critical review, we present our perspectives and recommendations to ensure LLM evaluations are reproducible, reliable, and robust."}
{"Title": "Consecutive Batch Model Editing with HooK Layers", "Abstract": "As the typical retraining paradigm is unacceptably time- and resource-consuming, researchers are turning to model editing to find an effective way that supports both consecutive and batch scenarios to edit the model behavior directly. Despite all these practical expectations, existing model editing methods fail to realize all of them. Furthermore, the memory demands for such sequential model editing approaches tend to be prohibitive, frequently necessitating an external memory that grows incrementally over time. To cope with these challenges, we propose CoachHooK, a model editing method that simultaneously supports sequential and batch editing. CoachHooK is memory-friendly as it only needs a small amount of it to store several hook layers whose size remains unchanged over time. Experimental results demonstrate the superiority of our method over other batch-supportive model editing methods under both single-round and consecutive batch editing scenarios. Extensive analyses of CoachHooK have been conducted to verify the stability of our method over a number of consecutive steps."}
{"Title": "Topic-Oriented Open Relation Extraction with A Priori Seed Generation", "Abstract": "The field of open relation extraction (ORE) has recently observed significant advancement thanks to the growing capability of large language models (LLMs). Nevertheless, challenges persist when ORE is performed on specific topics. Existing methods give sub-optimal results in five dimensions: factualness, topic relevance, informativeness, coverage, and uniformity. To improve topic-oriented ORE, we propose a zero-shot approach called PriORE: Open Relation Extraction with a Priori seed generation. PriORE leverages the built-in knowledge of LLMs to maintain a dynamic seed relation dictionary for the topic. The dictionary is initialized by seed relations generated from topic-relevant entity types and expanded during contextualized ORE. PriORE then reduces the randomness in generative ORE by converting it to a more robust relation classification task. Experiments show the approach empowers better topic-oriented control over the generated relations and thus improves ORE performance along the five dimensions, especially on specialized and narrow topics."}
{"Title": "Related Work and Citation Text Generation: A Survey", "Abstract": "To convince readers of the novelty of their research paper, authors must perform a literature review and compose a coherent story that connects and relates prior works to the current work. This challenging nature of literature review writing makes automatic related work generation (RWG) academically and computationally interesting, and also makes it an excellent test bed for examining the capability of SOTA natural language processing (NLP) models. Since the initial proposal of the RWG task, its popularity has waxed and waned, following the capabilities of mainstream NLP approaches. In this work, we survey the zoo of RWG historical works, summarizing the key approaches and task definitions and discussing the ongoing challenges of RWG."}
{"Title": "Curriculum Consistency Learning for Conditional Sentence Generation", "Abstract": "Consistency learning (CL) has proven to be a valuable technique for improving the robustness of models in conditional sentence generation (CSG) tasks by ensuring stable predictions across various input data forms. However, models augmented with CL often face challenges in optimizing consistency features, which can detract from their efficiency and effectiveness. To address these challenges, we introduce Curriculum Consistency Learning (CCL), a novel strategy that guides models to learn consistency in alignment with their current capacity to differentiate between features. CCL is designed around the inherent aspects of CL-related losses, promoting task independence and simplifying implementation. Implemented across four representative CSG tasks, including instruction tuning (IT) for large language models and machine translation (MT) in three modalities (text, speech, and vision), CCL demonstrates marked improvements. Specifically, it delivers +2.0 average accuracy point improvement compared with vanilla IT and an average increase of +0.7 in COMET scores over traditional CL methods in MT tasks. Our comprehensive analysis further indicates that models utilizing CCL are particularly adept at managing complex instances, showcasing the effectiveness and efficiency of CCL in improving CSG models. Code and scripts are available at https://github.com/xinxinxing/Curriculum-Consistency-Learning."}
{"Title": "A Systematic Analysis of Large Language Models as Soft Reasoners: The Case of Syllogistic Inferences", "Abstract": "The reasoning abilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) are becoming a central focus of study in NLP. In this paper, we consider the case of syllogistic reasoning, an area of deductive reasoning studied extensively in logic and cognitive psychology. Previous research has shown that pre-trained LLMs exhibit reasoning biases, such as content effects, avoid answering that no conclusion follows, align with human difficulties, and struggle with multi-step reasoning. We contribute to this research line by systematically investigating the effects of chain-of-thought reasoning, in-context learning (ICL), and supervised fine-tuning (SFT) on syllogistic reasoning, considering syllogisms with conclusions that support or violate world knowledge and with multiple premises. Crucially, we go beyond the standard focus on accuracy, with an in-depth analysis of the conclusions generated by the models. Our results suggest that the behavior of pre-trained LLMs can be explained by heuristics studied in cognitive science and that both ICL and SFT improve model performance on valid inferences, although only the latter can mitigate most reasoning biases while being consistent."}
{"Title": "Pre-training Cross-lingual Open Domain Question Answering with Large-scale Synthetic Supervision", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "MOSEL: 950,000 Hours of Speech Data for Open-Source Speech Foundation Model Training on EU Languages", "Abstract": "The rise of foundation models (FMs), coupled with regulatory efforts addressing their risks and impacts, has sparked significant interest in open-source models. However, existing speech FMs (SFMs) fall short of full compliance with the open-source principles, even if claimed otherwise, as no existing SFM has model weights, code, and training data publicly available under open-source terms. In this work, we take the first step toward filling this gap by focusing on the 24 official languages of the European Union (EU). We collect suitable training data by surveying automatic speech recognition datasets and unlabeled speech corpora under open-source compliant licenses, for a total of 950k hours. Additionally, we release automatic transcripts for 441k hours of unlabeled data under the permissive CC-BY license, thereby facilitating the creation of open-source SFMs for the EU languages."}
{"Title": "Improving Knowledge Graph Completion with Structure-Aware Supervised Contrastive Learning", "Abstract": "Knowledge Graphs (KGs) often suffer from incomplete knowledge, which which restricts their utility. Recently, Contrastive Learning (CL) has been introduced to Knowledge Graph Completion (KGC), significantly improving the discriminative capabilities of KGC models and setting new benchmarks in performance. However, existing contrastive methods primarily focus on individual triples, overlooking the broader structural connectivities and topologies of KGs. This narrow focus limits a comprehensive understanding of the graph{'}s structural knowledge. To address this gap, we propose StructKGC, a novel contrastive learning framework designed to flexibly accommodate the diverse topologies inherent in KGs. Additionally, we introduce four contrastive tasks specifically tailored to KG data: Vertex-level CL, Neighbor-level CL, Path-level CL, and Relation composition level CL. These tasks are trained synergistically during the fine-tuning of pre-trained language models (PLMs), allowing for a more nuanced capture of subgraph semantics. To validate the effectiveness of our method, we perform a comprehensive set of experiments on several real-world datasets. The experimental results demonstrate that our approach achieves SOTA performance under standard supervised and low-resource settings. Furthermore, the different levels of structure-aware tasks introduced can mutually reinforce each other, leading to consistent performance improvements."}
{"Title": "Contribution of Linguistic Typology to Universal Dependency Parsing: An Empirical Investigation", "Abstract": "Universal Dependencies (UD) is a global initiative to create a standard annotation for the dependency syntax of human languages. Addressing its deviation from typological principles, this study presents an empirical investigation of a typologically motivated transformation of UD proposed by William Croft. Our findings underscore the significance of the transformations across diverse languages and highlight their advantages and limitations."}
{"Title": "TRoTR: A Framework for Evaluating the Re-contextualization of Text Reuse", "Abstract": "Current approaches for detecting text reuse do not focus on recontextualization, i.e., how the new context(s) of a reused text differs from its original context(s). In this paper, we propose a novel framework called TRoTR that relies on the notion of topic relatedness for evaluating the diachronic change of context in which text is reused. TRoTR includes two NLP tasks: TRiC and TRaC. TRiC is designed to evaluate the topic relatedness between a pair of recontextualizations. TRaC is designed to evaluate the overall topic variation within a set of recontextualizations. We also provide a curated TRoTR benchmark of biblical text reuse, human-annotated with topic relatedness. The benchmark exhibits an inter-annotator agreement of .811. We evaluate multiple, established SBERT models on the TRoTR tasks and find that they exhibit greater sensitivity to textual similarity than topic relatedness. Our experiments show that fine-tuning these models can mitigate such a kind of sensitivity."}
{"Title": "Structured Optimal Brain Pruning for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The massive parameters and computational demands hinder the widespread application of Large Language Models (LLMs). Network pruning provides a practical solution to this problem. However, existing pruning works for LLMs mainly focus on unstructured pruning or necessitate post-pruning fine-tuning. The former relies on special hardware to accelerate computation, while the latter may need substantial computational resources. In this paper, we introduce a retraining-free structured pruning method called SoBP (Structured Optimal Brain Pruning). It leverages global first-order information to select pruning structures, then refines them with a local greedy approach, and finally adopts module-wise reconstruction to mitigate information loss. We assess the effectiveness of SoBP across 14 models from 3 LLM families on 8 distinct datasets. Experimental results demonstrate that SoBP outperforms current state-of-the-art methods."}
{"Title": "Automatically Generated Definitions and their utility for Modeling Word Meaning", "Abstract": "Modeling lexical semantics is a challenging task, often suffering from interpretability pitfalls. In this paper, we delve into the generation of dictionary-like sense definitions and explore their utility for modeling word meaning. We fine-tuned two Llama models and include an existing T5-based model in our evaluation. Firstly, we evaluate the quality of the generated definitions on existing English benchmarks, setting new state-of-the-art results for the Definition Generation task. Next, we explore the use of definitions generated by our models as intermediate representations subsequently encoded as sentence embeddings. We evaluate this approach on lexical semantics tasks such as the Word-in-Context, Word Sense Induction, and Lexical Semantic Change, setting new state-of-the-art results in all three tasks when compared to unsupervised baselines."}
{"Title": "How Do Your Code LLMs perform? Empowering Code Instruction Tuning with Really Good Data", "Abstract": "Recently, there has been a growing interest in studying how to construct better code instruction tuning data. However, we observe Code models trained with these datasets exhibit high performance on HumanEval but perform worse on other benchmarks such as LiveCodeBench. Upon further investigation, we find that many datasets suffer from severe data leakage. After cleaning up most of the leaked data, some well-known high-quality datasets perform poorly. This discovery reveals a new challenge: identifying which dataset genuinely qualify as high-quality code instruction data. To address this, we propose an efficient code data pruning strategy for selecting good samples. Our approach is based on three dimensions: instruction complexity, response quality, and instruction diversity. Based on our selected data, we present XCoder, a family of models finetuned from LLaMA3. Our experiments show Xcoder achieves new state-of-the-art performance using fewer training data, which verify the effectiveness of our data strategy. Moreover, we perform a comprehensive analysis on the data composition and find existing code datasets have different characteristics according to their construction methods, which provide new insights for future code LLMs."}
{"Title": "MAIR: A Massive Benchmark for Evaluating Instructed Retrieval", "Abstract": "Recent information retrieval (IR) models are pre-trained and instruction-tuned on massive datasets and tasks, enabling them to perform well on a wide range of tasks and potentially generalize to unseen tasks with instructions. However, existing IR benchmarks focus on a limited scope of tasks, making them insufficient for evaluating the latest IR models. In this paper, we propose MAIR (Massive Instructed Retrieval Benchmark), a heterogeneous IR benchmark that includes 126 distinct IR tasks across 6 domains, collected from existing datasets. We benchmark state-of-the-art instruction-tuned text embedding models and re-ranking models. Our experiments reveal that instruction-tuned models generally achieve superior performance compared to non-instruction-tuned models on MAIR Additionally, our results suggest that current instruction-tuned text embedding models and re-ranking models still lack effectiveness in specific long-tail tasks. MAIR is publicly available at https://github.com/sunnweiwei/Mair."}
{"Title": "Rethinking the Evaluation of In-Context Learning for LLMs", "Abstract": "In-context learning (ICL) has demonstrated excellent performance across various downstream NLP tasks, especially when synergized with powerful large language models (LLMs). Existing studies evaluate ICL methods primarily based on downstream task performance. This evaluation protocol overlooks the significant cost associated with the demonstration configuration process, i.e., tuning the demonstration as the ICL prompt. However, in this work, we point out that the evaluation protocol leads to unfair comparisons and potentially biased evaluation, because we surprisingly find the correlation between the configuration costs and task performance. Then we call for a two-dimensional evaluation paradigm that considers both of these aspects, facilitating a fairer comparison.Finally, based on our empirical finding that the optimized demonstration on one language model generalizes across language models of different sizes, we introduce a simple yet efficient strategy that can be applied to any ICL method as a plugin, yielding a better trade-off between the two dimensions according to the proposed evaluation paradigm."}
{"Title": "Cluster-Norm for Unsupervised Probing of Knowledge", "Abstract": "The deployment of language models brings challenges in generating reliable text, especially when these models are fine-tuned with human preferences. To extract the encoded knowledge in these models without (potentially) biased human labels, unsupervised probing techniques like Contrast-Consistent Search (CCS) have been developed (Burns et al., 2022). However, salient but unrelated features in activation space can mislead these probes (Farquhar et al., 2023). Addressing this, we propose a cluster-normalization method to minimize the impact of such features by clustering and normalizing activations of contrast pairs before applying unsupervised probing techniques. While this approach does not address the issue of distinguishing between latent knowledge and that portrayed by a simulated agent{---}a major issue in the literature of eliciting latent knowledge (Paul Christiano and Xu, 2021){---}it still significantly improves the accuracy of probes in identifying the intended knowledge amidst distractions."}
{"Title": "Hopping Too Late: Exploring the Limitations of Large Language Models on Multi-Hop Queries", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) can solve complex multi-step problems, but little is known about how these computations are implemented internally. Motivated by this, we study how LLMs answer multi-hop queries such as {``}The spouse of the performer of Imagine is{''}. These queries require two information extraction steps: a latent one for resolving the first hop ({``}the performer of Imagine{''}) into the bridge entity (John Lennon), and another for resolving the second hop ({``}the spouse of John Lennon{''}) into the target entity (Yoko Ono). Understanding how the latent step is computed internally is key to understanding the overall computation. By carefully analyzing the internal computations of transformer-based LLMs, we discover that the bridge entity is resolved in the early layers of the model. Then, only after this resolution, the two-hop query is solved in the later layers. Because the second hop commences in later layers, there could be cases where these layers no longer encode the necessary knowledge for correctly predicting the answer. Motivated by this, we propose a novel {``}back-patching{''} analysis method whereby a hidden representation from a later layer is patched back to an earlier layer. We find that in up to 66{\\%} of previously incorrect cases there exists a back-patch that results in the correct generation of the answer, showing that the later layers indeed sometimes lack the needed functionality. Overall our methods and findings open further opportunities for understanding and improving latent reasoning in transformer-based LLMs."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Training Data Attribution for Large Language Models with Fitting Error Consideration", "Abstract": "The black-box nature of large language models (LLMs) poses challenges in interpreting results, impacting issues such as data intellectual property protection and hallucination tracing. Training data attribution (TDA) methods are considered effective solutions to address these challenges.Most recent TDA methods rely on influence functions, assuming the model achieves minimized empirical risk. However, achieving this criterion is difficult, and sourcing accuracy can be compromised by fitting errors during model training. In this paper, we introduce a novel TDA method called Debias and Denoise Attribution (DDA), which enhances influence functions by addressing fitting errors. Specifically, the debias strategy seeks to improve the performance of influence functions by eliminating the knowledge bias present in the base model before fine-tuning, while the denoise strategy aims to reduce discrepancies in influence scores arising from varying degrees of fitting during the training process through smoothing techniques.Experimental results demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms existing approaches, achieving an averaged AUC of 91.64{\\%}. Moreover, DDA exhibits strong generality and scalability across various sources and different-scale models like LLaMA2, QWEN2, and Mistral."}
{"Title": "Where am I? Large Language Models Wandering between Semantics and Structures in Long Contexts", "Abstract": "As the utilization of Large Language Models (LLMs) becomes more widespread, there is a growing demand for their ability to handle more complex and longer external knowledge across various use cases. Most existing evaluations of the open-ended question answering (ODQA) task, which necessitates the use of external knowledge, focus solely on whether the model provides the correct answer. However, even when LLMs answer correctly, they often fail to provide an obvious source for their responses. Therefore, it is necessary to jointly evaluate and verify the correctness of the answers and the appropriateness of grounded evidence in complex external contexts. To address this issue, we examine the phenomenon of discrepancies in abilities across two distinct tasks{---}QA and evidence selection{---}when performed simultaneously, from the perspective of task alignment. To verify LLMs{'} task alignment, we introduce a verification framework and resources considering both semantic relevancy and structural diversity of the given long context knowledge. Through extensive experiments and detailed analysis, we provide insights into the task misalignment between QA and evidence selection. Our code and resources will be available upon acceptance."}
{"Title": "KARL: Knowledge-Aware Retrieval and Representations aid Retention and Learning in Students", "Abstract": "Flashcard schedulers rely on 1) *student models* to predict the flashcards a student knows; and 2) *teaching policies* to pick which cards to show next via these predictions.Prior student models, however, just use study data like the student{'}s past responses, ignoring the text on cards. We propose **content-aware scheduling**, the first schedulers exploiting flashcard content.To give the first evidence that such schedulers enhance student learning, we build KARL, a simple but effective content-aware student model employing deep knowledge tracing (DKT), retrieval, and BERT to predict student recall.We train KARL by collecting a new dataset of 123,143 study logs on diverse trivia questions.KARL bests existing student models in AUC and calibration error.To ensure our improved predictions lead to better student learning, we create a novel delta-based teaching policy to deploy KARL online.Based on 32 study paths from 27 users, KARL improves learning efficiency over SOTA, showing KARL{'}s strength and encouraging researchers to look beyond historical study data to fully capture student abilities."}
{"Title": "Large Language Models Can Be Contextual Privacy Protection Learners", "Abstract": "The proliferation of Large Language Models (LLMs) has driven considerable interest in fine-tuning them with domain-specific data to create specialized language models. Nevertheless, such domain-specific fine-tuning data often contains contextually sensitive personally identifiable information (PII). Direct fine-tuning LLMs on this data without privacy protection poses a risk of data leakage of sensitive PII during inference time. To address this challenge, we introduce Contextual Privacy Protection Language Models (CPPLM), a novel paradigm for fine-tuning LLMs that effectively injects domain-specific knowledge while safeguarding inference-time data privacy. Our work offers a theoretical analysis for model design and delves into various techniques such as corpus curation, penalty-based unlikelihood in training loss, and instruction-based tuning, etc. Extensive experiments across diverse datasets and scenarios demonstrate the effectiveness of our approaches. In particular, instruction tuning with both positive and negative examples, stands out as a promising method, effectively protecting private data while enhancing the model{'}s knowledge. Our work underscores the potential for Large Language Models as robust contextual privacy protection learners."}
{"Title": "A SMART Mnemonic Sounds like \u201cGlue Tonic\u201d: Mixing LLMs with Student Feedback to Make Mnemonic Learning Stick", "Abstract": "Keyword mnemonics are memorable explanations that link new terms to simpler keywords.Prior work generates mnemonics for students, but they do not train models using mnemonics students prefer and aid learning.We build SMART, a mnemonic generator trained on feedback from real students learning new terms.To train SMART, we first fine-tune LLaMA-2 on a curated set of user-written mnemonics.We then use LLM alignment to enhance SMART: we deploy mnemonics generated by SMART in a flashcard app to find preferences on mnemonics students favor.We gather 2684 preferences from 45 students across two types: **expressed** (inferred from ratings) and **observed** (inferred from student learning), yielding three key findings.First, expressed and observed preferences disagree; what students *think* is helpful does not always capture what is *truly* helpful.Second, Bayesian models can synthesize complementary data from multiple preference types into a single effectiveness signal.SMART is tuned via Direct Preference Optimization on this signal, which resolves ties and missing labels in the typical method of pairwise comparisons, augmenting data for LLM output quality gains. Third, mnemonic experts assess SMART as matching GPT-4 at much lower deployment costs, showing the utility of capturing diverse student feedback to align LLMs in education."}
{"Title": "Mixture-of-Skills: Learning to Optimize Data Usage for Fine-Tuning Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are typically fine-tuned on diverse and extensive datasets sourced from various origins to develop a comprehensive range of skills, such as writing, reasoning, chatting, coding, and more. Each skill has unique characteristics, and these datasets are often heterogeneous and imbalanced, making the fine-tuning process highly challenging. Balancing the development of each skill while ensuring the model maintains its overall performance requires sophisticated techniques and careful dataset curation. In this work, we propose a general, model-agnostic, reinforcement learning framework, Mixture-of-Skills (MoS), that learns to optimize data usage automatically during the fine-tuning process. This framework ensures the optimal comprehensive skill development of LLMs by dynamically adjusting the focus on different datasets based on their current learning state. To validate the effectiveness of MoS, we conduct extensive experiments using three diverse LLM backbones on two widely used benchmarks and demonstrate that MoS substantially enhances model performance. Building on the success of MoS, we propose MoSpec, an adaptation for task-specific fine-tuning, which harnesses the utilities of various datasets for a specific purpose. Our work underlines the significance of dataset rebalancing and present MoS as a powerful, general solution for optimizing data usage in the fine-tuning of LLMs for various purposes."}
{"Title": "MolTRES: Improving Chemical Language Representation Learning for Molecular Property Prediction", "Abstract": "Chemical representation learning has gained increasing interest due to the limited availability of supervised data in fields such as drug and materials design. This interest particularly extends to chemical language representation learning, which involves pre-training Transformers on SMILES sequences - textual descriptors of molecules. Despite its success in molecular property prediction, current practices often lead to overfitting and limited scalability due to early convergence. In this paper, we introduce a novel chemical language representation learning framework, called MolTRES, to address these issues. MolTRES incorporates generator-discriminator training, allowing the model to learn from more challenging examples that require structural understanding. In addition, we enrich molecular representations by transferring knowledge from scientific literature by integrating external materials embedding. Experimental results show that our model outperforms existing state-of-the-art models on popular molecular property prediction tasks."}
{"Title": "First Heuristic Then Rational: Dynamic Use of Heuristics in Language Model Reasoning", "Abstract": "Explicit multi-step reasoning, such as chain-of-thought, is widely adopted in the community to explore the better performance of language models (LMs). We report on the systematic strategy that LMs use in this process.Our controlled experiments reveal that LMs rely more heavily on heuristics, such as lexical overlap, in the earlier stages of reasoning when more steps are required to reach an answer. Conversely, their reliance on heuristics decreases as LMs progress closer to the final answer. This suggests that LMs track only a limited number of future steps and dynamically combine heuristic strategies with rational ones in solving tasks involving multi-step reasoning."}
{"Title": "Tools Fail: Detecting Silent Errors in Faulty Tools", "Abstract": "Tools have become a mainstay of LLMs, allowing them to retrieve knowledge not in their weights, to perform tasks on the web, and even to control robots. However, most ontologies and surveys of tool-use have assumed the core challenge for LLMs is choosing the tool. Instead, we introduce a framework for tools more broadly which guides us to explore a model{'}s ability to detect {``}silent{''} tool errors, and reflect on how to plan. This more directly aligns with the increasingly popular use of models as tools. We provide an initial approach to failure recovery with promising results both on a controlled calculator setting and embodied agent planning."}
{"Title": "Pcc-tuning: Breaking the Contrastive Learning Ceiling in Semantic Textual Similarity", "Abstract": "Semantic Textual Similarity (STS) constitutes a critical research direction in computational linguistics and serves as a key indicator of the encoding capabilities of embedding models. Driven by advances in pre-trained language models and contrastive learning, leading sentence representation methods have reached an average Spearman{'}s correlation score of approximately 86 across seven STS benchmarks in SentEval. However, further progress has become increasingly marginal, with no existing method attaining an average score higher than 86.5 on these tasks. This paper conducts an in-depth analysis of this phenomenon and concludes that the upper limit for Spearman{'}s correlation scores under contrastive learning is 87.5. To transcend this ceiling, we propose an innovative approach termed Pcc-tuning, which employs Pearson{'}s correlation coefficient as a loss function to refine model performance beyond contrastive learning. Experimental results demonstrate that Pcc-tuning can markedly surpass previous state-of-the-art strategies with only a minimal amount of fine-grained annotated samples."}
{"Title": "Cross-lingual Back-Parsing: Utterance Synthesis from Meaning Representation for Zero-Resource Semantic Parsing", "Abstract": "Recent efforts have aimed to utilize multilingual pretrained language models (mPLMs) to extend semantic parsing (SP) across multiple languages without requiring extensive annotations. However, achieving zero-shot cross-lingual transfer for SP remains challenging, leading to a performance gap between source and target languages. In this study, we propose Cross-Lingual Back-Parsing (CBP), a novel data augmentation methodology designed to enhance cross-lingual transfer for SP. Leveraging the representation geometry of the mPLMs, CBP synthesizes target language utterances from source meaning representations. Our methodology effectively performs cross-lingual data augmentation in challenging zero-resource settings, by utilizing only labeled data in the source language and monolingual corpora. Extensive experiments on two cross-language SP benchmarks (Mschema2QA and Xspider) demonstrate that CBP brings substantial gains in the target language. Further analysis of the synthesized utterances shows that our method successfully generates target language utterances with high slot value alignment rates while preserving semantic integrity. Our codes and data are publicly available at https://github.com/deokhk/CBP."}
{"Title": "Shaking Up VLMs: Comparing Transformers and Structured State Space Models for Vision & Language Modeling", "Abstract": "This study explores replacing Transformers in Visual Language Models (VLMs) with Mamba, a recent structured state space model (SSM) that demonstrates promising performance in sequence modeling. We test models up to 3B parameters under controlled conditions, showing that Mamba-based VLMs outperforms Transformers-based VLMs in captioning, question answering, and reading comprehension. However, we find that Transformers achieve greater performance in visual grounding and the performance gap widens with scale. We explore two hypotheses to explain this phenomenon: 1) the effect of task-agnostic visual encoding on the updates of the hidden states, and 2) the difficulty in performing visual grounding from the perspective of in-context multimodal retrieval. Our results indicate that a task-aware encoding yields minimal performance gains on grounding, however, Transformers significantly outperform Mamba at in-context multimodal retrieval. Overall, Mamba shows promising performance on tasks where the correct output relies on a summary of the image but struggles when retrieval of explicit information from the context is required."}
{"Title": "Are LLMs Good Zero-Shot Fallacy Classifiers?", "Abstract": "Fallacies are defective arguments with faulty reasoning. Detecting and classifying them is a crucial NLP task to prevent misinformation, manipulative claims, and biased decisions. However, existing fallacy classifiers are limited by the requirement for sufficient labeled data for training, which hinders their out-of-distribution (OOD) generalization abilities. In this paper, we focus on leveraging Large Language Models (LLMs) for zero-shot fallacy classification. To elicit fallacy-related knowledge and reasoning abilities of LLMs, we propose diverse single-round and multi-round prompting schemes, applying different taskspecific instructions such as extraction, summarization, and Chain-of-Thought reasoning. With comprehensive experiments on benchmark datasets, we suggest that LLMs could be potential zero-shot fallacy classifiers. In general, LLMs under single-round prompting schemes have achieved acceptable zeroshot performances compared to the best fullshot baselines and can outperform them in all OOD inference scenarios and some opendomain tasks. Our novel multi-round prompting schemes can effectively bring about more improvements, especially for small LLMs. Our analysis further underlines the future research on zero-shot fallacy classification. Codes and data are available at: https://github.com/panFJCharlotte98/Fallacy{\\_}Detection."}
{"Title": "The Mystery of In-Context Learning: A Comprehensive Survey on Interpretation and Analysis", "Abstract": "Understanding in-context learning (ICL) capability that enables large language models (LLMs) to excel in proficiency through demonstration examples is of utmost importance. This importance stems not only from the better utilization of this capability across various tasks, but also from the proactive identification and mitigation of potential risks, including concerns regarding truthfulness, bias, and toxicity, that may arise alongside the capability. In this paper, we present a thorough survey on the interpretation and analysis of in-context learning. First, we provide a concise introduction to the background and definition of in-context learning. Then, we give an overview of advancements from two perspectives: 1) a theoretical perspective, emphasizing studies on mechanistic interpretability and delving into the mathematical foundations behind ICL; and 2) an empirical perspective, concerning studies that empirically analyze factors associated with ICL. We conclude by discussing open questions and the challenges encountered, and suggesting potential avenues for future research. We believe that our work establishes the basis for further exploration into the interpretation of in-context learning. To aid this effort, we have created a repository containing resources that will be continually updated."}
{"Title": "More DWUGs: Extending and Evaluating Word Usage Graph Datasets in Multiple Languages", "Abstract": "Word Usage Graphs (WUGs) represent human semantic proximity judgments for pairs of word uses in a weighted graph, which can be clustered to infer word sense clusters from simple pairwise word use judgments, avoiding the need for word sense definitions. SemEval-2020 Task 1 provided the first and to date largest manually annotated, diachronic WUG dataset. In this paper, we check the robustness and correctness of the annotations by continuing the SemEval annotation algorithm for two more rounds and comparing against an established annotation paradigm. Further, we test the reproducibility by resampling a new, smaller set of word uses from the SemEval source corpora and annotating them. Our work contributes to a better understanding of the problems and opportunities of the WUG annotation paradigm and points to future improvements."}
{"Title": "Vision-Language Model Fine-Tuning via Simple Parameter-Efficient Modification", "Abstract": "Recent advances in fine-tuning Vision-Language Models (VLMs) have witnessed the success of prompt tuning and adapter tuning, while the classic model fine-tuning on inherent parameters seems to be overlooked. It is believed that fine-tuning the parameters of VLMs with few-shot samples corrupts the pre-trained knowledge since fine-tuning the CLIP model even degrades performance. In this paper, we revisit this viewpoint, and propose a new perspective: fine-tuning the specific parameters instead of all will uncover the power of classic model fine-tuning on VLMs. Through our meticulous study, we propose ClipFit, a simple yet effective method to fine-tune CLIP without introducing any overhead of extra parameters. We demonstrate that by only fine-tuning the specific bias terms and normalization layers, ClipFit can improve the performance of zero-shot CLIP by 7.27{\\%} average harmonic mean accuracy. Lastly, to understand how fine-tuning in CLIPFit affects the pre-trained models, we conducted extensive experimental analyses w.r.t. changes in internal parameters and representations. We found that low-level text bias layers and the first layer normalization layer change much more than other layers. The code will be released."}
{"Title": "ECIS-VQG: Generation of Entity-centric Information-seeking Questions from Videos", "Abstract": "Previous studies on question generation from videos have mostly focused on generating questions about common objects and attributes and hence are not entity-centric. In this work, we focus on the generation of entity-centric information-seeking questions from videos. Such a system could be useful for video-based learning, recommending {``}People Also Ask{''} questions, video-based chatbots, and fact-checking. Our work addresses three key challenges: identifying question-worthy information, linking it to entities, and effectively utilizing multimodal signals. Further, to the best of our knowledge, there does not exist a large-scale dataset for this task. Most video question generation datasets are on TV shows, movies, or human activities or lack entity-centric information-seeking questions. Hence, we contribute a diverse dataset of YouTube videos, VideoQuestions, consisting of 411 videos with 2265 manually annotated questions. We further propose a model architecture combining Transformers, rich context signals (titles, transcripts, captions, embeddings), and a combination of cross-entropy and contrastive loss function to encourage entity-centric question generation. Our best method yields BLEU, ROUGE, CIDEr, and METEOR scores of 71.3, 78.6, 7.31, and 81.9, respectively, demonstrating practical usability. We make the code and dataset publicly available."}
{"Title": "Distractor Generation in Multiple-Choice Tasks: A Survey of Methods, Datasets, and Evaluation", "Abstract": "The distractor generation task focuses on generating incorrect but plausible options for objective questions such as fill-in-the-blank and multiple-choice questions. This task is widely utilized in educational settings across various domains and subjects. The effectiveness of these questions in assessments relies on the quality of the distractors, as they challenge examinees to select the correct answer from a set of misleading options. The evolution of artificial intelligence (AI) has transitioned the task from traditional methods to the use of neural networks and pre-trained language models. This shift has established new benchmarks and expanded the use of advanced deep learning methods in generating distractors. This survey explores distractor generation tasks, datasets, methods, and current evaluation metrics for English objective questions, covering both text-based and multi-modal domains. It also evaluates existing AI models and benchmarks and discusses potential future research directions."}
{"Title": "Evaluating n-Gram Novelty of Language Models Using Rusty-DAWG", "Abstract": "How novel are texts generated by language models (LMs) relative to their training corpora? In this work, we investigate the extent to which modern LMs generate $n$-grams from their training data, evaluating both (i) the probability LMs assign to complete training $n$-grams and (ii) $n$-novelty, the proportion of $n$-grams generated by an LM that did not appear in the training data (for arbitrarily large $n$). To enable arbitrary-length $n$-gram search over a corpus in constant time w.r.t. corpus size, we develop Rusty-DAWG, a novel search tool inspired by indexing of genomic data. We compare the novelty of LM-generated text to human-written text and explore factors that affect generation novelty, focusing on the Pythia models. We find that, for $n > 4$, LM-generated text is less novel than human-written text, though it is more novel for smaller $n$. Larger LMs and more constrained decoding strategies both decrease novelty. Finally, we show that LMs complete $n$-grams with lower loss if they are more frequent in the training data. Overall, our results reveal factors influencing the novelty of LM-generated text, and we release Rusty-DAWG to facilitate further pretraining data research."}
{"Title": "ASL STEM Wiki: Dataset and Benchmark for Interpreting STEM Articles", "Abstract": "Deaf and hard-of-hearing (DHH) students face significant barriers in accessing science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education, notably due to the scarcity of STEM resources in signed languages. To help address this, we introduce ASL STEM Wiki: a parallel corpus of 254 Wikipedia articles on STEM topics in English, interpreted into over 300 hours of American Sign Language (ASL). ASL STEM Wiki is the first continuous signing dataset focused on STEM, facilitating the development of AI resources for STEM education in ASL.We identify several use cases of ASL STEM Wiki with human-centered applications. For example, because this dataset highlights the frequent use of fingerspelling for technical concepts, which inhibits DHH students{'} ability to learn,we develop models to identify fingerspelled words{---}which can later be used to query for appropriate ASL signs to suggest to interpreters."}
{"Title": "Can Automatic Metrics Assess High-Quality Translations?", "Abstract": "Automatic metrics for evaluating translation quality are typically validated by measuring how well they correlate with human assessments. However, correlation methods tend to capture only the ability of metrics to differentiate between good and bad source-translation pairs, overlooking their reliability in distinguishing alternative translations for the same source. In this paper, we confirm that this is indeed the case by showing that current metrics are insensitive to nuanced differences in translation quality. This effect is most pronounced when the quality is high and the variance among alternatives is low. Given this finding, we shift towards detecting high-quality correct translations, an important problem in practical decision-making scenarios where a binary check of correctness is prioritized over a nuanced evaluation of quality. Using the MQM framework as the gold standard, we systematically stress-test the ability of current metrics to identify translations with no errors as marked by humans. Our findings reveal that current metrics often over or underestimate translation quality, indicating significant room for improvement in machine translation evaluation."}
{"Title": "Modeling User Preferences with Automatic Metrics: Creating a High-Quality Preference Dataset for Machine Translation", "Abstract": "Alignment with human preferences is an important step in developing accurate and safe large language models. This is no exception in machine translation (MT), where better handling of language nuances and context-specific variations leads to improved quality. However, preference data based on human feedback can be very expensive to obtain and curate at a large scale. Automatic metrics, on the other hand, can induce preferences, but they might not match human expectations perfectly. In this paper, we propose an approach that leverages the best of both worlds. We first collect sentence-level quality assessments from professional linguists on translations generated by multiple high-quality MT systems and evaluate the ability of current automatic metrics to recover these preferences. We then use this analysis to curate a new dataset, MT-Pref (metric induced translation preference) dataset, which comprises 18k instances covering 18 language directions, using texts sourced from multiple domains post-2022. We show that aligning TOWER models on MT-Pref significantly improves translation quality on WMT23 and FLORES benchmarks."}
{"Title": "DC-Instruct: An Effective Framework for Generative Multi-intent Spoken Language Understanding", "Abstract": "In the realm of multi-intent spoken language understanding, recent advancements have leveraged the potential of prompt learning frameworks. However, critical gaps exist in these frameworks: the lack of explicit modeling of dual-task dependencies and the oversight of task-specific semantic differences among utterances. To address these shortcomings, we propose DC-Instruct, a novel generative framework based on Dual-task Inter-dependent Instructions (DII) and Supervised Contrastive Instructions (SCI). Specifically, DII guides large language models (LLMs) to generate labels for one task based on the other task{'}s labels, thereby explicitly capturing dual-task inter-dependencies. Moreover, SCI leverages utterance semantics differences by guiding LLMs to determine whether a pair of utterances share the same or similar labels. This can improve LLMs on extracting and discriminating task-specific semantics, thus enhancing their SLU reasoning abilities. Extensive experiments on public benchmark datasets show that DC-Instruct markedly outperforms current generative models and state-of-the-art methods, demonstrating its effectiveness in enhancing dialogue language understanding and reasoning."}
{"Title": "KnowTuning: Knowledge-aware Fine-tuning for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Despite their success at many natural language processing (NLP) tasks, large language models still struggle to effectively leverage knowledge for knowledge-intensive tasks, manifesting limitations such as generating incomplete, non-factual, or illogical answers. These limitations stem from inadequate knowledge awareness of LLMs during vanilla fine-tuning. To address these problems, we propose a knowledge-aware fine-tuning (KnowTuning) method to improve fine-grained and coarse-grained knowledge awareness of LLMs. We devise a fine-grained knowledge augmentation stage to train LLMs to identify difficult fine-grained knowledge in answers. We also propose a coarse-grained knowledge comparison stage to train LLMs to distinguish between reliable and unreliable knowledge, in three aspects: completeness, factuality, and logicality. Extensive experiments on both generic and medical question answering (QA) datasets confirm the effectiveness of KnowTuning, through automatic and human evaluations, across various sizes of LLMs. We further verify that KnowTuning generates more facts with less factual error rate under fine-grained facts evaluation."}
{"Title": "SecCoder: Towards Generalizable and Robust Secure Code Generation", "Abstract": "After large models (LMs) have gained widespread acceptance in code-related tasks, their superior generative capacity has greatly promoted the application of the code LM. Nevertheless, the security of the generated code has raised attention to its potential damage. Existing secure code generation methods have limited generalizability to unseen test cases and poor robustness against the attacked model, leading to safety failures in code generation. In this paper, we propose a generalizable and robust secure code generation method SecCoder by using in-context learning (ICL) and the safe demonstration. The dense retriever is also used to select the most helpful demonstration to maximize the improvement of the generated code{'}s security. Experimental results show the superior generalizability of the proposed model SecCoder compared to the current secure code generation method, achieving a significant security improvement of an average of 7.20{\\%} on unseen test cases. The results also show the better robustness of SecCoder compared to the current attacked code LM, achieving a significant security improvement of an average of 7.74{\\%}. Our analysis indicates that SecCoder enhances the security of LMs in generating code, and it is more generalizable and robust."}
{"Title": "Nash CoT: Multi-Path Inference with Preference Equilibrium", "Abstract": "Chain of thought (CoT) is a reasoning framework that can enhance the performance of large language models (LLMs) on complex inference tasks. In particular, among various studies related to CoT, multi-path inference stands out as a simple yet effective improvement. However, there is no optimal setting for the number of inference paths. Therefore, we have to increase the number of inference paths to obtain better results, which in turn increases the inference cost. To address this limitation, we can utilize question-related role templates to guide LLMs into relevant roles, thereby increasing the possibility of correct inferences for each path and further reducing dependence on the number of inference paths while improving reasoning accuracy. However, placing LLMs into specific roles may reduce their reasoning diversity and performance on a few tasks where role dependence is low. To alleviate the excessive immersion of the LLM into a specific role, we propose Nash CoT by constructing a competitive system on each path that balances the generation from role-specific LLMs{'} and the general LLMs{'} generation, thereby ensuring both effective role adoption and diversity in LLM generation further maintaining the performance of multi-path inference while reducing the requirement of the number of inference paths. We evaluate Nash CoT across various inference tasks, including Arabic Reasoning, Commonsense Question Answering, and Symbolic Inference, achieving results that are comparable to or better than those of multi-path CoT with the equal number of inference paths."}
{"Title": "Scalable Efficient Training of Large Language Models with Low-dimensional Projected Attention", "Abstract": "Improving the effectiveness and efficiency of large language models (LLMs) simultaneously is a critical yet challenging research goal. In this paper, we find that low-rank pre-training, normally considered as efficient methods that will compromise performance, can be scalably effective when reduced parameters are precisely targeted. Specifically, by applying low-dimensional module only to the attention layer {---} resolves this issue and enhances both effectiveness and efficiency. We refer to this structure as *Low-dimensional Projected Attention (LPA)* and provide an explanatory analysis. Through extensive experimentation at parameter scales of 130M, 370M, and scaling up to 3B, we have validated the effectiveness and scalability of LPA. Our results show that LPA model can save up to 12.4{\\%} in time while achieving an approximate 5{\\%} improvement in test perplexity (ppl) and on downstream tasks compared with vanilla Transformer."}
{"Title": "Small Agent Can Also Rock! Empowering Small Language Models as Hallucination Detector", "Abstract": "Hallucination detection is a challenging task for large language models (LLMs), and existing studies heavily rely on powerful closed-source LLMs such as GPT-4. In this paper, we propose an autonomous LLM-based agent framework, called HaluAgent, which enables relatively smaller LLMs (e.g. Baichuan2-Chat 7B) to actively select suitable tools for detecting multiple hallucination types such as text, code, and mathematical expression. In HaluAgent, we integrate the LLM, multi-functional toolbox, and design a fine-grained three-stage detection framework along with memory mechanism. To facilitate the effectiveness of HaluAgent, we leverage existing Chinese and English datasets to synthesize detection trajectories for fine-tuning, which endows HaluAgent with the capability for bilingual hallucination detection. Extensive experiments demonstrate that only using 2K samples for tuning LLMs, HaluAgent can perform hallucination detection on various types of tasks and datasets, achieving performance comparable to or even higher than GPT-4 without tool enhancements on both in-domain and out-of-domain datasets."}
{"Title": "Interpretable Composition Attribution Enhancement for Visio-linguistic Compositional Understanding", "Abstract": "Contrastively trained vision-language models such as CLIP have achieved remarkable progress in vision and language representation learning. Despite the promising progress, their proficiency in compositional reasoning over attributes and relations (e.g., distinguishing between {``}the car is underneath the person{''} and {``}the person is underneath the car{''}) remains notably inadequate. We investigate the cause for this deficient behavior is the composition attribution issue, where the attribution scores (e.g., attention scores or GradCAM scores) for relations (e.g., underneath) or attributes (e.g., red) in the text are substantially lower than those for object terms. In this work, we show such issue is mitigated via a novel framework called CAE (Composition Attribution Enhancement). This generic framework incorporates various interpretable attribution methods to encourage the model to pay greater attention to composition words denoting relationships and attributes within the text. Detailed analysis shows that our approach enables the models to adjust and rectify the attribution of the texts. Extensive experiments across seven benchmarks reveal that our framework significantly enhances the ability to discern intricate details and construct more sophisticated interpretations of combined visual and linguistic elements."}
{"Title": "LLM Task Interference: An Initial Study on the Impact of Task-Switch in Conversational History", "Abstract": "With the recent emergence of powerful instruction-tuned large language models (LLMs), various helpful conversational Artificial Intelligence (AI) systems have been deployed across many applications. When prompted by users, these AI systems successfully perform a wide range of tasks as part of a conversation. To provide some sort of memory and context, such approaches typically condition their output on the entire conversational history. Although this sensitivity to the conversational history can often lead to improved performance on subsequent tasks, we find that performance can in fact also be negatively impacted, if there is a {\\_}task-switch{\\_}. To the best of our knowledge, our work makes the first attempt to formalize the study of such vulnerabilities and interference of tasks in conversational LLMs caused by task-switches in the conversational history. Our experiments across 5 datasets with 15 task switches using popular LLMs reveal that many of the task-switches can lead to significant performance degradation."}
{"Title": "Social Bias Probing: Fairness Benchmarking for Language Models", "Abstract": "While the impact of social biases in language models has been recognized, prior methods for bias evaluation have been limited to binary association tests on small datasets, limiting our understanding of bias complexities. This paper proposes a novel framework for probing language models for social biases by assessing disparate treatment, which involves treating individuals differently according to their affiliation with a sensitive demographic group. We curate SoFa, a large-scale benchmark designed to address the limitations of existing fairness collections. SoFa expands the analysis beyond the binary comparison of stereotypical versus anti-stereotypical identities to include a diverse range of identities and stereotypes. Comparing our methodology with existing benchmarks, we reveal that biases within language models are more nuanced than acknowledged, indicating a broader scope of encoded biases than previously recognized. Benchmarking LMs on SoFa, we expose how identities expressing different religions lead to the most pronounced disparate treatments across all models. Finally, our findings indicate that real-life adversities faced by various groups such as women and people with disabilities are mirrored in the behavior of these models."}
{"Title": "Chain-of-Note: Enhancing Robustness in Retrieval-Augmented Language Models", "Abstract": "Retrieval-augmented language model (RALM) represents a significant advancement in mitigating factual hallucination by leveraging external knowledge sources. However, the reliability of the retrieved information is not always guaranteed, and the retrieval of irrelevant data can mislead the response generation. Moreover, standard RALMs frequently neglect their intrinsic knowledge due to the interference from retrieved information. In instances where the retrieved information is irrelevant, RALMs should ideally utilize their intrinsic knowledge or, in the absence of both intrinsic and retrieved knowledge, opt to respond with {``}unknown{''} to avoid hallucination. In this paper, we introduces Chain-of-Note (CoN), a novel approach to improve robustness of RALMs in facing noisy, irrelevant documents and in handling unknown scenarios. The core idea of CoN is to generate sequential reading notes for each retrieved document, enabling a thorough evaluation of their relevance to the given question and integrating this information to formulate the final answer. Our experimental results show that GPT-4, when equipped with CoN, outperforms the Chain-of-Thought approach. Besides, we utilized GPT-4 to create 10K CoN data, subsequently trained on smaller models like OPT and LLaMa-2. Our experiments across four open-domain QA benchmarks show that fine-tuned RALMs equipped with CoN significantly outperform standard fine-tuned RALMs."}
{"Title": "DynaThink: Fast or Slow? A Dynamic Decision-Making Framework for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated emergent capabilities across diverse reasoning tasks via popular Chains-of-Thought (COT) prompting. However, such a simple and fast COT approach often encounters limitations in dealing with complicated problems, while a thorough method, which considers multiple reasoning pathways and verifies each step carefully, results in slower inference. This paper addresses the challenge of enabling LLMs to autonomously select between fast and slow inference methods, thereby optimizing both efficiency and effectiveness. We introduce a dynamic decision-making framework that categorizes tasks into two distinct pathways: {`}Fast,{'} designated for tasks where the LLM quickly identifies a high-confidence solution, and {`}Slow,{'} allocated for tasks that the LLM perceives as complex and for which it has low confidence in immediate solutions as well as requiring more reasoning paths to verify. Experiments on five popular reasoning benchmarks demonstrated the superiority of the DynaThink over baselines. For example, when we compared it to strong COT with self-consistency baseline on the complicated MATH dataset, DynaThink achieved more than 3{\\%} increase in accuracy with lower cost. The code will be made available upon publication."}
{"Title": "Revisiting Automated Evaluation for Long-form Table Question Answering", "Abstract": "In the era of data-driven decision-making, Long-Form Table Question Answering (LFTQA) is essential for integrating structured data with complex reasoning. Despite recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) for LFTQA, evaluating their effectiveness remains a significant challenge. We introduce LFTQA-Eval, a meta-evaluation dataset comprising 2,988 human-annotated examples, to rigorously assess the efficacy of current automated metrics in assessing LLM-based LFTQA systems, with a focus on faithfulness and comprehensiveness. Our findings reveal that existing automatic metrics poorly correlate with human judgments and fail to consistently differentiate between factually accurate responses and those that are coherent but factually incorrect. Additionally, our in-depth examination of the limitations associated with automated evaluation methods provides essential insights for the improvement of LFTQA automated evaluation."}
{"Title": "Weak Reward Model Transforms Generative Models into Robust Causal Event Extraction Systems", "Abstract": "The inherent ambiguity of cause and effect boundaries poses a challenge in evaluating causal event extraction tasks. Traditional metrics like Exact Match and BertScore poorly reflect model performance, so we trained evaluation models to approximate human evaluation, achieving high agreement. We used them to perform Reinforcement Learning with extraction models to align them with human preference, prioritising semantic understanding. We successfully explored our approach through multiple datasets, including transferring an evaluator trained on one dataset to another as a way to decrease the reliance on human-annotated data. In that vein, we also propose a weak-to-strong supervision method that uses a fraction of the annotated data to train an evaluation model while still achieving high performance in training an RL model."}
{"Title": "Learn Beyond The Answer: Training Language Models with Reflection for Mathematical Reasoning", "Abstract": "Supervised fine-tuning enhances the problem-solving abilities of language models across various mathematical reasoning tasks. To maximize such benefits, existing research focuses on *broadening* the training set with various data augmentation techniques, which is effective for standard single-round question-answering settings. Our work introduces a novel technique aimed at cultivating a *deeper* understanding of the training problems at hand, enhancing performance not only in standard settings but also in more complex scenarios that require reflective thinking. Specifically, we propose **reflective augmentation**, a method that embeds problem reflection into each training instance. It trains the model to consider alternative perspectives and engage with abstractions and analogies, thereby fostering a thorough comprehension through reflective reasoning. Extensive experiments validate the achievement of our aim, underscoring the unique advantages of our method and its complementary nature relative to existing augmentation techniques."}
{"Title": "FinDVer: Explainable Claim Verification over Long and Hybrid-content Financial Documents", "Abstract": "We introduce FinDVer, a comprehensive benchmark specifically designed to evaluate the explainable claim verification capabilities of LLMs in the context of understanding and analyzing long, hybrid-content financial documents. FinDVer contains 4,000 expert-annotated examples across four subsets, each focusing on a type of scenario that frequently arises in real-world financial domains. We assess a broad spectrum of 25 LLMs under long-context and RAG settings. Our results show that even the current best-performing system (i.e., GPT-4o) significantly lags behind human experts. Our detailed findings and insights highlight the strengths and limitations of existing LLMs in this new task. We believe FinDVer can serve as a valuable benchmark for evaluating LLM capabilities in claim verification over complex, expert-domain documents."}
{"Title": "Extracting Prompts by Inverting LLM Outputs", "Abstract": "We consider the problem of language model inversion: given outputs of a language model, we seek to extract the prompt that generated these outputs. We develop a new black-box method, output2prompt, that extracts prompts without access to the model{'}s logits and without adversarial or jailbreaking queries. Unlike previous methods, output2prompt only needs outputs of normal user queries. To improve memory efficiency, output2prompt employs a new sparse encoding techique. We measure the efficacy of output2prompt on a variety of user and system prompts and demonstrate zero-shot transferability across different LLMs."}
{"Title": "BiasAlert: A Plug-and-play Tool for Social Bias Detection in LLMs", "Abstract": "Evaluating the bias of LLMs becomes more crucial with their rapid development. However, existing evaluation approaches rely on fixed-form outputs and cannot adapt to the flexible open-text generation scenarios of LLMs (e.g., sentence completion and question answering). To address this, we introduce BiasAlert, a plug-and-play tool designed to detect social bias in open-text generations of LLMs. BiasAlert integrates external human knowledge with its inherent reasoning capabilities to detect bias reliably. Extensive experiments demonstrate that BiasAlert significantly outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods like GPT-4-as-Judge in detecting bias. Furthermore, through application studies, we showcase the utility of BiasAlert in reliable LLM fairness evaluation and bias mitigation across various scenarios. Model and code will be publicly released."}
{"Title": "VHASR: A Multimodal Speech Recognition System With Vision Hotwords", "Abstract": "The image-based multimodal automatic speech recognition (ASR) model enhances speech recognition performance by incorporating audio-related image. However, some works suggest that introducing image information to model does not help improving ASR performance. In this paper, we propose a novel approach effectively utilizing audio-related image information and set up VHASR, a multimodal speech recognition system that uses vision as hotwords to strengthen the model{'}s speech recognition capability. Our system utilizes a dual-stream architecture, which firstly transcribes the text on the two streams separately, and then combines the outputs. We evaluate the proposed model on four datasets: Flickr8k, ADE20k, COCO, and OpenImages. The experimental results show that VHASR can effectively utilize key information in images to enhance the model{'}s speech recognition ability. Its performance not only surpasses unimodal ASR, but also achieves SOTA among existing image-based multimodal ASR."}
{"Title": "A Probability\u2013Quality Trade-off in Aligned Language Models and its Relation to Sampling Adaptors", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Bridging Local Details and Global Context in Text-Attributed Graphs", "Abstract": "Representation learning on text-attributed graphs (TAGs) is vital for real-world applications, as they combine semantic textual and contextual structural information. Research in this field generally consist of two main perspectives: local-level encoding and global-level aggregating, respectively refer to textual node information unification ($e.g.$, using Language Models) and structure-augmented modeling ($e.g.$, using Graph Neural Networks). Most existing works focus on combining different information levels but overlook the interconnections, $i.e.$, the contextual textual information among nodes, which provides semantic insights to bridge local and global levels. In this paper, we propose GraphBridge, a $multi-granularity integration$ framework that bridges local and global perspectives by leveraging contextual textual information, enhancing fine-grained understanding of TAGs. Besides, to tackle scalability and efficiency challenges, we introduce a graph-aware token reduction module. Extensive experiments across various models and datasets show that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance, while our graph-aware token reduction module significantly enhances efficiency and solves scalability issues. Codes are available at https://github.com/wykk00/GraphBridge."}
{"Title": "Building Resources for Emakhuwa: Machine Translation and News Classification Benchmarks", "Abstract": "This paper introduces a comprehensive collection of NLP resources for Emakhuwa, Mozambique{'}s most widely spoken language. The resources include the first manually translated news bitext corpus between Portuguese and Emakhuwa, news topic classification datasets, and monolingual data. We detail the process and challenges of acquiring this data and present benchmark results for machine translation and news topic classification tasks. Our evaluation examines the impact of different data types{---}originally clean text, post-corrected OCR, and back-translated data{---}and the effects of fine-tuning from pre-trained models, including those focused on African languages.Our benchmarks demonstrate good performance in news topic classification and promising results in machine translation. We fine-tuned multilingual encoder-decoder models using real and synthetic data and evaluated them on our test set and the FLORES evaluation sets. The results highlight the importance of incorporating more data and potential for future improvements.All models, code, and datasets are available in the \\url{https://huggingface.co/LIACC} repository under the CC BY 4.0 license."}
{"Title": "RepMatch: Quantifying Cross-Instance Similarities in Representation Space", "Abstract": "Advances in dataset analysis techniques have enabled more sophisticated approaches to analyzing and characterizing training data instances, often categorizing data based on attributes such as {``}difficulty{''}. In this work, we introduce RepMatch, a novel method that characterizes data through the lens of similarity.RepMatch quantifies the similarity between subsets of training instances by comparing the knowledge encoded in models trained on them, overcoming the limitations of existing analysis methods that focus solely on individual instances and are restricted to within-dataset analysis.Our framework allows for a broader evaluation, enabling similarity comparisons across arbitrary subsets of instances, supporting both dataset-to-dataset and instance-to-dataset analyses. We validate the effectiveness of RepMatch across multiple NLP tasks, datasets, and models. Through extensive experimentation, we demonstrate that RepMatch can effectively compare datasets, identify more representative subsets of a dataset (that lead to better performance than randomly selected subsets of equivalent size), and uncover heuristics underlying the construction of some challenge datasets."}
{"Title": "Commonsense Knowledge Editing Based on Free-Text in LLMs", "Abstract": "Knowledge editing technology is crucial for maintaining the accuracy and timeliness of large language models (LLMs) . However, the setting of this task overlooks a significant portion of commonsense knowledge based on free-text in the real world, characterized by broad knowledge scope, long content and non instantiation. The editing objects of previous methods (e.g., MEMIT) were single token or entity, which were not suitable for commonsense knowledge in free-text form. To address the aforementioned challenges, we conducted experiments from two perspectives: knowledge localization and knowledge editing. Firstly, we introduced Knowledge Localization for Free-Text(KLFT) method, revealing the challenges associated with the distribution of commonsense knowledge in MLP and Attention layers, as well as in decentralized distribution. Next, we propose a Dynamics-aware Editing Method(DEM), which utilizes a Dynamics-aware Module to locate the parameter positions corresponding to commonsense knowledge, and uses Knowledge Editing Module to update knowledge. The DEM method fully explores the potential of the MLP and Attention layers, and successfully edits commonsense knowledge based on free-text. The experimental results indicate that the DEM can achieve excellent editing performance."}
{"Title": "A Closer Look at Multidimensional Online Political Incivility", "Abstract": "Toxic online political discourse has become prevalent, where scholars debate about its impact to Democratic processes. This work presents a large-scale study of political incivility on Twitter. In line with theories of political communication, we differentiate between harsh {`}impolite{'} style and intolerant substance. We present a dataset of 13K political tweets in the U.S. context, which we collected and labeled by those categories using crowd sourcing. Our dataset and results shed light on hostile political discourse focused on partisan conflicts in the U.S. The evaluation of state-of-the-art classifiers illustrates the challenges involved in political incivility detection, which often requires high-level semantic and social understanding. Nevertheless, performing incivility detection at scale, we are able to characterise its distribution across individual users and geopolitical regions, where our findings align and extend existing theories of political communication. In particular, we find that roughly 80{\\%} of the uncivil tweets are authored by 20{\\%} of the users, where users who are politically engaged are more inclined to use uncivil language. We further find that political incivility exhibits network homophily, and that incivility is more prominent in highly competitive geopolitical regions. Our results apply to both uncivil style and substance."}
{"Title": "Leveraging BERT and TFIDF Features for Short Text Clustering via Alignment-Promoting Co-Training", "Abstract": "BERT and TFIDF features excel in capturing rich semantics and important words, respectively. Since most existing clustering methods are solely based on the BERT model, they often fall short in utilizing keyword information, which, however, is very useful in clustering short texts. In this paper, we propose a **CO**-**T**raining **C**lustering (**COTC**) framework to make use of the collective strengths of BERT and TFIDF features. Specifically, we develop two modules responsible for the clustering of BERT and TFIDF features, respectively. We use the deep representations and cluster assignments from the TFIDF module outputs to guide the learning of the BERT module, seeking to align them at both the representation and cluster levels. Reversely, we also use the BERT module outputs to train the TFIDF module, thus leading to the mutual promotion. We then show that the alternating co-training framework can be placed under a unified joint training objective, which allows the two modules to be connected tightly and the training signals to be propagated efficiently. Experiments on eight benchmark datasets show that our method outperforms current SOTA methods significantly."}
{"Title": "Applying Intrinsic Debiasing on Downstream Tasks: Challenges and Considerations for Machine Translation", "Abstract": "Most works on gender bias focus on intrinsic bias {---} removing traces of information about a protected group from the model{'}s internal representation. However, these works are often disconnected from the impact of such debiasing on downstream applications, which is the main motivation for debiasing in the first place. In this work, we systematically test how methods for intrinsic debiasing affect neural machine translation models, by measuring the extrinsic bias of such systems under different design choices. We highlight three challenges and mismatches between the debiasing techniques and their end-goal usage, including the choice of embeddings to debias, the mismatch between words and sub-word tokens debiasing, and the effect on different target languages. We find that these considerations have a significant impact on downstream performance and the success of debiasing."}
{"Title": "Unsupervised Named Entity Disambiguation for Low Resource Domains", "Abstract": "In the ever-evolving landscape of natural language processing and information retrieval, the need for robust and domain-specific entity linking algorithms has become increasingly apparent. It is crucial in a considerable number of fields such as humanities, technical writing and biomedical sciences to enrich texts with semantics and discover more knowledge. The use of Named Entity Disambiguation (NED) in such domains requires handling noisy texts, low resource settings and domain-specific KBs. Existing approaches are mostly inappropriate for such scenarios, as they either depend on training data or are not flexible enough to work with domain-specific KBs. Thus in this work, we present a unsupervised approach leveraging the concept of Group Steiner Trees (GST), which can identify the most relevant candidate for entity disambiguation using the contextual similarities across candidate entities for all the mentions present in a document. We outperform the state-of-the-art unsupervised methods by more than 40{\\%}(in avg) in terms of Precision@1 and Hit@5 across various domain-specific datasets."}
{"Title": "SparseGrad: A Selective Method for Efficient Fine-tuning of MLP Layers", "Abstract": "The performance of Transformer models has been enhanced by increasing the number of parameters and the length of the processed text. Consequently, fine-tuning the entire model becomes a memory-intensive process. High-performance methods for parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) typically work with Attention blocks and often overlook MLP blocks, which contain about half of the model parameters. We propose a new selective PEFT method, namely SparseGrad, that performs well on MLP blocks. We transfer layer gradients to a space where only about 1{\\%} of the layer{'}s elements remain significant. By converting gradients into a sparse structure, we reduce the number of updated parameters. We apply SparseGrad to fine-tune BERT and RoBERTa for the NLU task and LLaMa-2 for the Question-Answering task. In these experiments, with identical memory requirements, our method outperforms LoRA and MeProp, robust popular state-of-the-art PEFT approaches."}
{"Title": "MoCoKGC: Momentum Contrast Entity Encoding for Knowledge Graph Completion", "Abstract": "In recent years, numerous studies have sought to enhance the capabilities of pretrained language models (PLMs) for Knowledge Graph Completion (KGC) tasks by integrating structural information from knowledge graphs. However, existing approaches have not effectively combined the structural attributes of knowledge graphs with the textual descriptions of entities to generate robust entity encodings.To address this issue, this paper proposes MoCoKGC (Momentum Contrast Entity Encoding for Knowledge Graph Completion), which incorporates three primary encoders: the entity-relation encoder, the entity encoder, and the momentum entity encoder. Momentum contrastive learning not only provides more negative samples but also allows for the gradual updating of entity encodings. Consequently, we reintroduce the generated entity encodings into the encoder to incorporate the graph{'}s structural information.Additionally, MoCoKGC enhances the inferential capabilities of the entity-relation encoder through deep prompts of relations. On the standard evaluation metric, Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR), the MoCoKGC model demonstrates superior performance, achieving a 7.1{\\%} improvement on the WN18RR dataset and an 11{\\%} improvement on the Wikidata5M dataset, while also surpassing the current best model on the FB15k-237 dataset. Through a series of experiments, this paper thoroughly examines the role and contribution of each component and parameter of the model."}
{"Title": "ActPlan-1K: Benchmarking the Procedural Planning Ability of Visual Language Models in Household Activities", "Abstract": "Large language models(LLMs) have been adopted to process textual task description and accomplish procedural planning in embodied AI tasks because of their powerful reasoning ability. However, there is still lack of study on how vision language models(VLMs) behave when multi-modal task inputs are considered. Counterfactual planning that evaluates the model{'}s reasoning ability over alternative task situations are also under exploited. In order to evaluate the planning ability of both multi-modal and counterfactual aspects, we propose ActPlan-1K. ActPlan-1K is a multi-modal planning benchmark constructed based on ChatGPT and household activity simulator iGibson2. The benchmark consists of 153 activities and 1,187 instances. Each instance describing one activity has a natural language task description and multiple environment images from the simulator. The gold plan of each instance is action sequences over the objects in provided scenes. Both the correctness and commonsense satisfaction are evaluated on typical VLMs. It turns out that current VLMs are still struggling at generating human-level procedural plans for both normal activities and counterfactual activities. We further provide automatic evaluation metrics by finetuning over BLEURT model to facilitate future research on our benchmark."}
{"Title": "Shortcuts Arising from Contrast: Towards Effective and Lightweight Clean-Label Attacks in Prompt-Based Learning", "Abstract": "Prompt-based learning paradigm has been shown to be vulnerable to backdoor attacks. Current clean-label attack, employing a specific prompt as trigger, can achieve success without the need for external triggers and ensuring correct labeling of poisoned samples, which are more stealthy compared to the poisoned-label attack, but on the other hand, facing significant issues with false activations and pose greater challenges, necessitating a higher rate of poisoning. Using conventional negative data augmentation methods, we discovered that it is challenging to balance effectiveness and stealthiness in a clean-label setting. In addressing this issue, we are inspired by the notion that a backdoor acts as a shortcut, and posit that this shortcut stems from the contrast between the trigger and the data utilized for poisoning. In this study, we propose a method named Contrastive Shortcut Injection (CSI), by leveraging activation values, integrates trigger design and data selection strategies to craft stronger shortcut features. With extensive experiments on full-shot and few-shot text classification tasks, we empirically validate CSI{'}s high effectiveness and high stealthiness at low poisoning rates."}
{"Title": "GRASS: Compute Efficient Low-Memory LLM Training with Structured Sparse Gradients", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "RaTEScore: A Metric for Radiology Report Generation", "Abstract": "This paper introduces a novel, entity-aware metric, termed as Radiological Report (Text) Evaluation (RaTEScore), to assess the quality of medical reports generated by AI models. RaTEScore emphasizes crucial medical entities such as diagnostic outcomes and anatomical details, and is robust against complex medical synonyms and sensitive to negation expressions. Technically, we developed a comprehensive medical NER dataset, RaTE-NER, and trained an NER model specifically for this purpose. This model enables the decomposition of complex radiological reports into constituent medical entities. The metric itself is derived by comparing the similarity of entity embeddings, obtained from a language model, based on their types and relevance to clinical significance. Our evaluations demonstrate that RaTEScore aligns more closely with human preference than existing metrics, validated both on established public benchmarks and our newly proposed RaTE-Eval benchmark."}
{"Title": "HalluMeasure: Fine-grained Hallucination Measurement Using Chain-of-Thought Reasoning", "Abstract": "Automating the measurement of hallucinations in LLM generated responses is a challenging task as it requires careful investigation of each factual claim in a response. In this paper, we introduce HalluMeasure, a new LLM-based hallucination detection mechanism that decomposes an LLM response into atomic claims, and evaluates each atomic claim against the provided reference context. The model uses a step-by-step reasoning process called Chain-of-Thought and can identify 3 major categories of hallucinations (e.g., contradiction) as well as 10 more specific subtypes (e.g., overgeneralization) which help to identify reasons behind the hallucination errors. Specifically, we explore four different configurations for HalluMeasure{'}s classifier: with and without CoT prompting, and using a single classifier call to classify all claims versus separate calls for each claim. The best-performing configuration (with CoT and separate calls for each claim) demonstrates significant improvements in detecting hallucinations, achieving a 10-point increase in F1 score on our TechNewsSumm dataset, and a 3-point increase in AUC ROC on the SummEval dataset, compared to three baseline models (RefChecker, AlignScore, and Vectara HHEM). We further show reasonable accuracy on detecting 10 novel error subtypes of hallucinations (where even humans struggle in classification) derived from linguistic analysis of the errors made by the LLMs."}
{"Title": "Learning to Rank Salient Content for Query-focused Summarization", "Abstract": "This study examines the potential of integrating Learning-to-Rank (LTR) with Query-focused Summarization (QFS) to enhance the summary relevance via content prioritization. Using a shared secondary decoder with the summarization decoder, we carry out the LTR task at the segment level. Compared to the state-of-the-art, our model outperforms on QMSum benchmark (all metrics) and matches on SQuALITY benchmark (2 metrics) as measured by Rouge and BertScore while offering a lower training overhead. Specifically, on the QMSum benchmark, our proposed system achieves improvements, particularly in Rouge-L (+0.42) and BertScore (+0.34), indicating enhanced understanding and relevance. While facing minor challenges in Rouge-1 and Rouge-2 scores on the SQuALITY benchmark, the model significantly excels in Rouge-L (+1.47), underscoring its capability to generate coherent summaries. Human evaluations emphasize the efficacy of our method in terms of relevance and faithfulness of the generated summaries, without sacrificing fluency. A deeper analysis reveals our model{'}s superiority over the state-of-the-art for broad queries, as opposed to specific ones, from a qualitative standpoint. We further present an error analysis of our model, pinpointing challenges faced and suggesting potential directions for future research in this field."}
{"Title": "Are Large Language Models Good Classifiers? A Study on Edit Intent Classification in Scientific Document Revisions", "Abstract": "Classification is a core NLP task architecture with many potential applications. While large language models (LLMs) have brought substantial advancements in text generation, their potential for enhancing classification tasks remains underexplored. To address this gap, we propose a framework for thoroughly investigating fine-tuning LLMs for classification, including both generation- and encoding-based approaches. We instantiate this framework in edit intent classification (EIC), a challenging and underexplored classification task. Our extensive experiments and systematic comparisons with various training approaches and a representative selection of LLMs yield new insights into their application for EIC. We investigate the generalizability of these findings on five further classification tasks. To demonstrate the proposed methods and address the data shortage for empirical edit analysis, we use our best-performing EIC model to create Re3-Sci2.0, a new large-scale dataset of 1,780 scientific document revisions with over 94k labeled edits. The quality of the dataset is assessed through human evaluation. The new dataset enables an in-depth empirical study of human editing behavior in academic writing. We make our experimental framework, models and data publicly available."}
{"Title": "LitSearch: A Retrieval Benchmark for Scientific Literature Search", "Abstract": "Literature search questions, such as {``}where can I find research on the evaluation of consistency in generated summaries?{''} pose significant challenges for modern search engines and retrieval systems. These questions often require a deep understanding of research concepts and the ability to reason over entire articles. In this work, we introduce LitSearch, a retrieval benchmark comprising 597 realistic literature search queries about recent ML and NLP papers. LitSearch is constructed using a combination of (1) questions generated by GPT-4 based on paragraphs containing inline citations from research papers and (2) questions about recently published papers, manually written by their authors. All LitSearch questions were manually examined or edited by experts to ensure high quality. We extensively benchmark state-of-the-art retrieval models and also evaluate two LLM-based reranking pipelines. We find a significant performance gap between BM25 and state-of-the-art dense retrievers, with a 24.8{\\%} difference in absolute recall@5. The LLM-based reranking strategies further improve the best-performing dense retriever by 4.4{\\%}. Additionally, commercial search engines and research tools like Google Search perform poorly on LitSearch, lagging behind the best dense retriever by 32 points. Taken together, these results show that LitSearch is an informative new testbed for retrieval systems while catering to a real-world use case."}
{"Title": "Open-world Multi-label Text Classification with Extremely Weak Supervision", "Abstract": "We study open-world multi-label text classification under extremely weak supervision (XWS), where the user only provides a brief description for classification objectives without any labels or ground-truth label space. Similar single-label XWS settings have been explored recently, however, these methods cannot be easily adapted for multi-label. We observe that (1) most documents have a dominant class covering the majority of content and (2) long-tail labels would appear in some documents as a dominant class. Therefore, we first utilize the user description to prompt a large language model (LLM) for dominant keyphrases of a subset of raw documents, and then construct a (initial) label space via clustering. We further apply a zero-shot multi-label classifier to locate the documents with small top predicted scores, so we can revisit their dominant keyphrases for more long-tail labels. We iterate this process to discover a comprehensive label space and construct a multi-label classifier as a novel method, X-MLClass. X-MLClass exhibits a remarkable increase in ground-truth label space coverage on various datasets, for example, a 40{\\%} improvement on the AAPD dataset over topic modeling and keyword extraction methods. Moreover, X-MLClass achieves the best end-to-end multi-label classification accuracy."}
{"Title": "LLMs learn governing principles of dynamical systems, revealing an in-context neural scaling law", "Abstract": "We study LLMs{'} ability to extrapolate the behavior of various dynamical systems, including stochastic, chaotic, continuous, and discrete systems, whose evolution is governed by principles of physical interest. Our results show that LLaMA-2, a language model trained on text, achieves accurate predictions of dynamical system time series without fine-tuning or prompt engineering. Moreover, the accuracy of the learned physical rules increases with the length of the input context window, revealing an in-context version of a neural scaling law. Along the way, we present a flexible and efficient algorithm for extracting probability density functions of multi-digit numbers directly from LLMs."}
{"Title": "AKEW: Assessing Knowledge Editing in the Wild", "Abstract": "Knowledge editing injects knowledge updates into language models to keep them correct and up-to-date. However, its current evaluations deviate significantly from practice: their knowledge updates solely consist of structured facts derived from meticulously crafted datasets, instead of practical sources{---}unstructured texts like news articles, and they often overlook practical real-world knowledge updates. To address these issues, in this paper we propose AKEW (Assessing Knowledge Editing in the Wild), a new practical benchmark for knowledge editing. AKEW fully covers three editing settings of knowledge updates: structured facts, unstructured texts as facts, and extracted triplets. It further introduces new datasets featuring both counterfactual and real-world knowledge updates. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate the considerable gap between state-of-the-art knowledge-editing methods and practical scenarios. Our analyses further highlight key insights to motivate future research for practical knowledge editing."}
{"Title": "CopyBench: Measuring Literal and Non-Literal Reproduction of Copyright-Protected Text in Language Model Generation", "Abstract": "Evaluating the degree of reproduction of copyright-protected content by language models (LMs) is of significant interest to the AI and legal communities. Although both literal and non-literal similarities are considered by courts when assessing the degree of reproduction, prior research has focused only on literal similarities. To bridge this gap, we introduce CopyBench, a benchmark designed to measure both literal and non-literal copying in LM generations. Using copyrighted fiction books as text sources, we provide automatic evaluation protocols to assess literal and non-literal copying, balanced against the model utility in terms of the ability to recall facts from the copyrighted works and generate fluent completions. We find that, although literal copying is relatively rare, two types of non-literal copying{---}event copying and character copying{---}occur even in models as small as 7B parameters. Larger models demonstrate significantly more copying, with literal copying rates increasing from 0.2{\\%} to 10.5{\\%} and non-literal copying from 2.3{\\%} to 5.9{\\%} when comparing Llama3-8B and 70B models, respectively. We further evaluate the effectiveness of current strategies for mitigating copying and show that (1) training-time alignment can reduce literal copying but may increase non-literal copying, and (2) current inference-time mitigation methods primarily reduce literal but not non-literal copying."}
{"Title": "Dense X Retrieval: What Retrieval Granularity Should We Use?", "Abstract": "Dense retrieval has become a prominent method to obtain relevant context or world knowledge in open-domain NLP tasks. When we use a learned dense retriever on a retrieval corpus at inference time, an often-overlooked design choice is the retrieval unit in which the corpus is indexed, e.g. document, passage, or sentence. We discover that the retrieval unit choice significantly impacts the performance of both retrieval and downstream tasks. Distinct from the typical approach of using passages or sentences, we introduce a novel retrieval unit, proposition, for dense retrieval. Propositions are defined as atomic expressions within text, each encapsulating a distinct factoid and presented in a concise, self-contained natural language format. We conduct an empirical comparison of different retrieval granularity. Our experiments reveal that indexing a corpus by fine-grained units such as propositions significantly outperforms passage-level units in retrieval tasks. Moreover, constructing prompts with fine-grained retrieved units for retrieval-augmented language models improves the performance of downstream QA tasks given a specific computation budget."}
{"Title": "Decoding Susceptibility: Modeling Misbelief to Misinformation Through a Computational Approach", "Abstract": "Susceptibility to misinformation describes the degree of belief in unverifiable claims, a latent aspect of individuals{'} mental processes that is not observable. Existing susceptibility studies heavily rely on self-reported beliefs, which can be subject to bias, expensive to collect, and challenging to scale for downstream applications. To address these limitations, in this work, we propose a computational approach to efficiently model users{'} latent susceptibility levels. As shown in previous work, susceptibility is influenced by various factors (e.g., demographic factors, political ideology), and directly influences people{'}s reposting behavior on social media. To represent the underlying mental process, our susceptibility modeling incorporates these factors as inputs, guided by the supervision of people{'}s sharing behavior. Using COVID-19 as a testbed, our experiments demonstrate a significant alignment between the susceptibility scores estimated by our computational modeling and human judgments, confirming the effectiveness of this latent modeling approach. Furthermore, we apply our model to annotate susceptibility scores on a large-scale dataset and analyze the relationships between susceptibility with various factors. Our analysis reveals that political leanings and other psychological factors exhibit varying degrees of association with susceptibility to COVID-19 misinformation, and shows that susceptibility is unevenly distributed across different professional and geographical backgrounds."}
{"Title": "Layer by Layer: Uncovering Where Multi-Task Learning Happens in Instruction-Tuned Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Fine-tuning pre-trained large language models (LLMs) on a diverse array of tasks has become a common approach for building models that can solve various natural language processing (NLP) tasks. However, where and to what extent these models retain task-specific knowledge remains largely unexplored. This study investigates the task-specific information encoded in pre-trained LLMs and the effects of instruction tuning on their representations across a diverse set of over 60 NLP tasks. We use a set of matrix analysis tools to examine the differences between the way pre-trained and instruction-tuned LLMs store task-specific information. Our findings reveal that while some tasks are already encoded within the pre-trained LLMs, others greatly benefit from instruction tuning. Additionally, we pinpointed the layers in which the model transitions from high-level general representations to more task-oriented representations. This finding extends our understanding of the governing mechanisms of LLMs and facilitates future research in the fields of parameter-efficient transfer learning and multi-task learning. Our code is available at: https://github.com/zsquaredz/layer{\\_}by{\\_}layer/"}
{"Title": "XDetox: Text Detoxification with Token-Level Toxicity Explanations", "Abstract": "Methods for mitigating toxic content through masking and infilling often overlook the decision-making process, leading to either insufficient or excessive modifications of toxic tokens. To address this challenge, we propose XDetox, a novel method that integrates token-level toxicity explanations with the masking and infilling detoxification process. We utilized this approach with two strategies to enhance the performance of detoxification. First, identifying toxic tokens to improve the quality of masking. Second, selecting the regenerated sentence by re-ranking the least toxic sentence among candidates. Our experimental results show state-of-the-art performance across four datasets compared to existing detoxification methods. Furthermore, human evaluations indicate that our method outperforms baselines in both fluency and toxicity reduction. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in text detoxification."}
{"Title": "Optimizing Chinese Lexical Simplification Across Word Types: A Hybrid Approach", "Abstract": "This paper addresses the task of Chinese Lexical Simplification (CLS). A key challenge in CLS is the scarcity of data resources. We begin by evaluating the performance of various language models at different scales in unsupervised and few-shot settings, finding that their effectiveness is sensitive to word types. Expensive large language models (LLMs), such as GPT-4, outperform small models in simplifying complex content words and Chinese idioms from the dictionary.To take advantage of this, we propose an automatic knowledge distillation framework called PivotKD for generating training data to fine-tune small models.In addition, all models face difficulties with out-of-dictionary (OOD) words such as internet slang.To address this, we implement a retrieval-based interpretation augmentation (RIA) strategy, injecting word interpretations from external resources into the context.Experimental results demonstrate that fine-tuned small models outperform GPT-4 in simplifying complex content words and Chinese idioms. Additionally, the RIA strategy enhances the performance of most models, particularly in handling OOD words. Our findings suggest that a hybrid approach could optimize CLS performance while managing inference costs. This would involve configuring choices such as model scale, linguistic resources, and the use of RIA based on specific word types to strike an ideal balance."}
{"Title": "Control Large Language Models via Divide and Conquer", "Abstract": "This paper investigates the capability of LLMs on controllable generation with prompt-based controlling, focusing on Lexically Constrained Generation (LCG). We systematically evaluate the performance of LLMs on satisfying lexical constraints with prompt-based controlling, as well as their efficacy in downstream applications. We identified three key reasons that highlight the limitations of LLMs in LCG, including (1) position bias, where LLMs tend to satisfy constraints that appear in specific positions within the input; (2) low responsiveness to control decoding parameters, which minimally impact the performance of LLMs; and (3) struggle with handling the inherent complexity of certain constraints (e.g. compound word). We conclude that black-box LLMs face significant challenges in consistently satisfying lexical constraints with prompt-based controlling. To address this bottleneck, we introduce the Divide and Conquer Generation strategy, effective for both white-box and black-box LLMs, to enhance LLMs performance in LCG tasks, which demonstrates over 90{\\%} improvement on success rate in the most challenging LCG task. Our analysis aims to provide valuable insights into the performance of LLMs in LCG with prompt-based controlling, and our proposed strategy offers a pathway to more sophisticated and customized text generation applications."}
{"Title": "Joint Pre-Encoding Representation and Structure Embedding for Efficient and Low-Resource Knowledge Graph Completion", "Abstract": "Knowledge graph completion (KGC) aims to infer missing or incomplete parts in knowledge graph. The existing models are generally divided into structure-based and description-based models, among description-based models often require longer training and inference times as well as increased memory usage. In this paper, we propose Pre-Encoded Masked Language Model (PEMLM) to efficiently solve KGC problem. By encoding textual descriptions into semantic representations before training, the necessary resources are significantly reduced. Furthermore, we introduce a straightforward but effective fusion framework to integrate structural embedding with pre-encoded semantic description, which enhances the model{'}s prediction performance on 1-N relations. The experimental results demonstrate that our proposed strategy attains state-of-the-art performance on the WN18RR (MRR+5.4{\\%} and Hits@1+6.4{\\%}) and UMLS datasets. Compared to existing models, we have increased inference speed by 30x and reduced training memory by approximately 60{\\%}."}
{"Title": "Improving Discriminative Capability of Reward Models in RLHF Using Contrastive Learning", "Abstract": "Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) is a crucial approach to aligning language models with human values and intentions. A fundamental challenge in this method lies in ensuring that the reward model accurately understands and evaluates human preferences. Current methods rely on ranking losses to teach the reward model to assess preferences, but they are susceptible to noise and ambiguous data, often failing to deeply understand human intentions. To address this issue, we introduce contrastive learning into the reward modeling process. In addition to supervised ranking loss, we introduce an unsupervised contrastive loss to enable the reward model to fully capture the distinctions in contrastive data. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed contrastive learning-based reward modeling method effectively enhances the generalization of the reward model, stabilizes the reinforcement learning training process, and improves the final alignment with human preferences."}
{"Title": "RoCEL: Advancing Table Entity Linking through Distinctive Row and Column Contexts", "Abstract": "Table entity linking (TEL) aims to map entity mentions in the table to their corresponding entities in a knowledge base (KB). The core of this task is to leverage structured contexts, specifically row and column contexts, to enhance the semantics of mentions in entity disambiguation. Most entity linking (EL) methods primarily focus on understanding sequential text contexts, making it difficult to adapt to the row and column structure of tables. Additionally, existing methods for TEL indiscriminately mix row and column contexts together, overlooking their semantic differences. In this paper, we explicitly distinguish the modeling of row and column contexts, and propose a method called RoCEL to capture their distinct semantics. Specifically, for row contexts in tables, we take the attention mechanism to learn the implicit relational dependencies between each cell and the mention. For column contexts in tables, we employ a set-wise encoder to learn the categorical information about the group of mentions. At last, we merge both contexts to obtain the final mention embedding for link prediction. Experiments on four benchmarks show that our approach outperforms the state-of-the-art (SOTA) baseline by about 1.5{\\%} on the in-domain dataset, and by 3.7{\\%} on average across three out-of-domain datasets."}
{"Title": "Exploring the Role of Reasoning Structures for Constructing Proofs in Multi-Step Natural Language Reasoning with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "When performing complex multi-step reasoning tasks, the ability of Large Language Models (LLMs) to derive structured intermediate proof steps is important for ensuring that the models truly perform the desired reasoning and for improving models{'} explainability. This paper is centred around a focused study: whether the current state-of-the-art generalist LLMs can leverage the structures in a few examples to better construct the proof structures with in-context learning. Our study specifically focuses on structure-aware demonstration and structure-aware pruning. We demonstrate that they both help improve performance. A detailed analysis is provided to help understand the results."}
{"Title": "Efficient Overshadowed Entity Disambiguation by Mitigating Shortcut Learning", "Abstract": "Entity disambiguation (ED) is crucial in natural language processing (NLP) for tasks such as question-answering and information extraction. A major challenge in ED is handling overshadowed entities{---}uncommon entities sharing mention surfaces with common entities. The current approach to enhance performance on these entities involves reasoning over facts in a knowledge base (KB), increasing computational overhead during inference. We argue that the ED performance on overshadowed entities can be enhanced during training by addressing shortcut learning, which does not add computational overhead at inference. We propose a simple yet effective debiasing technique to prevent models from shortcut learning during training. Experiments on a range of ED datasets show that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance without compromising inference speed. Our findings suggest a new research direction for improving entity disambiguation via shortcut learning mitigation."}
{"Title": "AppBench: Planning of Multiple APIs from Various APPs for Complex User Instruction", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) can interact with the real world by connecting with versatile external APIs, resulting in better problem-solving and task automation capabilities. Previous research primarily either focuses on APIs with limited arguments from a single source or overlooks the complex dependency relationship between different APIs. However, it is essential to utilize multiple APIs collaboratively from various sources, especially for complex user instructions. In this paper, we introduce MetaBench, the first benchmark to evaluate LLMs{'} ability to plan and execute multiple APIs from various sources in order to complete the user{'}s task. Specifically, we consider two significant challenges in multiple APIs: 1) graph structures: some APIs can be executed independently while others need to be executed one by one, resulting in graph-like execution order; and 2) permission constraints: which source is authorized to execute the API call. We have experimental results on 9 distinct LLMs; e.g., GPT-4o achieves only a 2.0{\\%} success rate at the most complex instruction, revealing that the existing state-of-the-art LLMs still cannot perform well in this situation even with the help of in-context learning and finetuning. Our code and data are publicly available at \\url{https://github.com/ruleGreen/AppBench}."}
{"Title": "Not Everything is All You Need: Toward Low-Redundant Optimization for Large Language Model Alignment", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are still struggling in aligning with human preference in complex tasks and scenarios. They are prone to overfit into the unexpected patterns or superficial styles in the training data. We conduct an empirical study that only selects the top-10{\\%} most updated parameters in LLMs for alignment training, and see improvements in the convergence process and final performance. It indicates the existence of redundant neurons in LLMs for alignment training. To reduce its influence, we propose a low-redundant alignment method named **ALLO**, focusing on optimizing the most related neurons with the most useful supervised signals. Concretely, we first identify the neurons that are related to the human preference data by a gradient-based strategy, then identify the alignment-related key tokens by reward models for computing loss. Besides, we also decompose the alignment process into the forgetting and learning stages, where we first forget the tokens with unaligned knowledge and then learn aligned knowledge, by updating different ratios of neurons, respectively. Experimental results on 10 datasets have shown the effectiveness of ALLO. Our code and data will be publicly released."}
{"Title": "AudioVSR: Enhancing Video Speech Recognition with Audio Data", "Abstract": "Visual Speech Recognition (VSR) aims to predict spoken content by analyzing lip movements in videos. Recently reported state-of-the-art results in VSR often rely on increasingly large amounts of video data, while the publicly available transcribed video datasets are insufficient compared to the audio data. To further enhance the VSR model using the audio data, we employed a generative model for data inflation, integrating the synthetic data with the authentic visual data. Essentially, the generative model incorporates another insight, which enhances the capabilities of the recognition model. For the cross-language issue, previous work has shown poor performance with non-Indo-European languages. We trained a multi-language-family modal fusion model, AudioVSR. Leveraging the concept of modal transfer, we achieved significant results in downstream VSR tasks under conditions of data scarcity. To the best of our knowledge, AudioVSR represents the first work on cross-language-family audio-lip alignment, achieving a new SOTA in the cross-language scenario."}
{"Title": "ECCO: Can We Improve Model-Generated Code Efficiency Without Sacrificing Functional Correctness?", "Abstract": "Although large language models (LLMs) have been largely successful in generating functionally correct programs, conditioning models to produce efficient solutions while ensuring correctness remains a challenge. Further, unreliability in benchmarking code efficiency is a hurdle across varying hardware specifications for popular interpreted languages such as Python. In this paper, we present ECCO, a reproducible benchmark for evaluating program efficiency via two paradigms: natural language (NL) based code generation and history-based code editing. On ECCO, we adapt and thoroughly investigate the three most promising existing LLM-based approaches: in-context learning, iterative refinement with execution or NL feedback, and fine-tuning conditioned on execution and editing history. While most methods degrade functional correctness and moderately increase program efficiency, we find that adding execution information often helps maintain functional correctness, and NL feedback enhances more on efficiency. We release our benchmark to support future work on LLM-based generation of efficient code."}
{"Title": "Ladder: A Model-Agnostic Framework Boosting LLM-based Machine Translation to the Next Level", "Abstract": "General-purpose Large Language Models (LLMs) like GPT-4 have achieved remarkable advancements in machine translation (MT) by leveraging extensive web content. On the other hand, translation-specific LLMs are built by pre-training on domain-specific monolingual corpora and fine-tuning with human-annotated translation data. Despite the superior performance, these methods either demand an unprecedented scale of computing and data or substantial human editing and annotation efforts. In this paper, we develop MT-Ladder, a novel model-agnostic and cost-effective tool to refine the performance of general LLMs for MT. MT-Ladder is trained on pseudo-refinement triplets which can be easily obtained from existing LLMs without additional human cost. During training, we propose a hierarchical fine-tuning strategy with an easy-to-hard schema, improving MT-Ladder{'}s refining performance progressively. The trained MT-Ladder can be seamlessly integrated with any general-purpose LLMs to boost their translation performance. By utilizing Gemma-2B/7B as the backbone, MT-Ladder-2B can elevate raw translations to the level of top-tier open-source models (e.g., refining BigTranslate-13B with +6.91 BLEU and +3.52 COMET for XX\u00e2\u0086\u0092En), and MT-Ladder-7B can further enhance model performance to be on par with the state-of-the-art GPT-4. Extensive ablation and analysis corroborate the effectiveness of MT-Ladder in diverse settings."}
{"Title": "Re-ReST: Reflection-Reinforced Self-Training for Language Agents", "Abstract": "Finetuning language agents with reasoning-action trajectories is effective, but obtaining these trajectories from human annotations or stronger models is costly and sometimes impractical. In this paper, we investigate the use of self-training in language agents, which can generate supervision from the agent itself, offering a promising alternative without relying on human or stronger model demonstrations. Self-training, however, requires high-quality model-generated samples, which are hard to obtain for challenging language agent tasks. To address this, we present Reflection-Reinforced Self-Training (Re-ReST), which uses a \\textit{reflector} to refine low-quality generated samples during self-training. The reflector takes the agent{'}s output and feedback from an external environment (e.g., unit test results in code generation) to produce improved samples. This technique enhances the quality of inferior samples and efficiently enriches the self-training dataset with higher-quality samples. We conduct extensive experiments on open-source language agents across tasks, including multi-hop question answering, sequential decision-making, code generation, visual question answering, and text-to-image generation. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of self-training and Re-ReST in language agent tasks, with self-training improving baselines by 7.6{\\%} on HotpotQA and 28.4{\\%} on AlfWorld, and Re-ReST further boosting performance by 2.0{\\%} and 14.1{\\%}, respectively. Our studies also confirm the efficiency of using a reflector to generate high-quality samples for self-training. Moreover, we demonstrate a method to employ reflection during inference without ground-truth feedback, addressing the limitation of previous reflection work."}
{"Title": "Effective Synthetic Data and Test-Time Adaptation for OCR Correction", "Abstract": "Post-OCR technology is used to correct errors in the text produced by OCR systems. This study introduces a method for constructing post-OCR synthetic data with different noise levels using weak supervision. We define Character Error Rate (CER) thresholds for {``}effective{''} and {``}ineffective{''} synthetic data, allowing us to create more useful multi-noise level synthetic datasets. Furthermore, we propose Self-Correct-Noise Test-Time Adaptation (SCN-TTA), which combines self-correction and noise generation mechanisms. SCN-TTA allows a model to dynamically adjust to test data without relying on labels, effectively handling proper nouns in long texts and further reducing CER. In our experiments we evaluate a range of models, including multiple PLMs and LLMs. Results indicate that our method yields models that are effective across diverse text types. Notably, the ByT5 model achieves a CER reduction of 68.67{\\%} without relying on manually annotated data"}
{"Title": "SRF: Enhancing Document-Level Relation Extraction with a Novel Secondary Reasoning Framework", "Abstract": "Document-level Relation Extraction (DocRE) aims to extract relations between entity pairs in a document and poses many challenges as it involves multiple mentions of entities and cross-sentence inference. However, several aspects that are important for DocRE have not been considered and explored. Existing work ignores bidirectional mention interaction when generating relational features for entity pairs. Also, sophisticated neural networks are typically designed for cross-sentence evidence extraction to further enhance DocRE. More interestingly, we reveal a noteworthy finding: If a model has predicted a relation between an entity and other entities, this relation information may help infer and predict more relations between the entity{'}s adjacent entities and these other entities. Nonetheless, none of existing methods leverage secondary reasoning to exploit results of relation prediction. To this end, we propose a novel Secondary Reasoning Framework (SRF) for DocRE. In SRF, we initially propose a DocRE model that incorporates bidirectional mention fusion and a simple yet effective evidence extraction module (incurring only an additional learnable parameter overhead) for relation prediction. Further, for the first time, we elaborately design and propose a novel secondary reasoning method to discover more relations by exploring the results of the first relation prediction. Extensive experiments show that SRF achieves SOTA performance and our secondary reasoning method is both effective and general when integrated into existing models."}
{"Title": "FineCops-Ref: A new Dataset and Task for Fine-Grained Compositional Referring Expression Comprehension", "Abstract": "Referring Expression Comprehension (REC) is a crucial cross-modal task that objectively evaluates the capabilities of language understanding, image comprehension, and language-to-image grounding. Consequently, it serves as an ideal testing ground for Multi-modal Large Language Models (MLLMs). In pursuit of this goal, we have established a new REC dataset characterized by two key features: Firstly, it is designed with controllable varying levels of difficulty, necessitating multi-level fine-grained reasoning across object categories, attributes, and multi-hop relationships. Secondly, it includes negative text and images created through fine-grained editing and generation based on existing data, thereby testing the model{'}s ability to correctly reject scenarios where the target object is not visible in the image{---}an essential aspect often overlooked in existing datasets and approaches. Utilizing this high-quality dataset, we conducted comprehensive evaluations of both state-of-the-art specialist models and MLLMs. Our findings indicate that there remains a significant gap in achieving satisfactory grounding performance. We anticipate that our dataset will inspire new approaches to enhance visual reasoning and develop more advanced cross-modal interaction strategies, ultimately unlocking the full potential of MLLMs."}
{"Title": "Exploring the Learning Capabilities of Language Models using LEVERWORLDS", "Abstract": "Learning a model of a stochastic setting often involves learning both general structure rules and specific properties of the instance. This paper investigates the interplay between learning the general and the specific in various learning methods, with emphasis on sample efficiency. We design a framework called LEVERWORLDS, which allows the generation of simple physics-inspired worlds that follow a similar generative process with different distributions, and their instances can be expressed in natural language. These worlds allow for controlled experiments to assess the sample complexity of different learning methods. We experiment with classic learning algorithms as well as Transformer language models, both with fine-tuning and In-Context Learning (ICL). Our general finding is that (1) Transformers generally succeed in the task; but (2) they are considerably less sample efficient than classic methods that make stronger assumptions about the structure, such as Maximum Likelihood Estimation and Logistic Regression. This finding is in tension with the recent tendency to use Transformers as general-purpose estimators. We propose an approach that leverages the ICL capabilities of contemporary language models to apply simple algorithms for this type of data. Our experiments show that models currently struggle with the task but show promising potential."}
{"Title": "CONTESTS: a Framework for Consistency Testing of Span Probabilities in Language Models", "Abstract": "Although language model scores are often treated as probabilities, their reliability as probability estimators has mainly been studied through calibration, overlooking other aspects. In particular, it is unclear whether language models produce the same value for different ways of assigning joint probabilities to word spans. Our work introduces a novel framework, ConTestS (Consistency Testing over Spans), involving statistical tests to assess score consistency across interchangeable completion and conditioning orders. We conduct experiments on post-release real and synthetic data to eliminate training effects. Our findings reveal that both Masked Language Models (MLMs) and autoregressive models exhibit inconsistent predictions, with autoregressive models showing larger discrepancies. Larger MLMs tend to produce more consistent predictions, while autoregressive models show the opposite trend. Moreover, for both model types, prediction entropies offer insights into the true word span likelihood and therefore can aid in selecting optimal decoding strategies. The inconsistencies revealed by our analysis, as well their connection to prediction entropies and differences between model types, can serve as useful guides for future research on addressing these limitations."}
{"Title": "DocEdit-v2: Document Structure Editing Via Multimodal LLM Grounding", "Abstract": "Document structure editing involves manipulating localized textual, visual, and layout components in document images based on the user{'}s requests. Past works have shown that multimodal grounding of user requests in the document image and identifying the accurate structural components and their associated attributes remain key challenges for this task. To address these, we introduce the DocEditAgent, a novel framework that performs end-to-end document editing by leveraging Large Multimodal Models (LMMs). It consists of three novel components {--} (1) Doc2Command to simultaneously localize edit regions of interest (RoI) and disambiguate user edit requests into edit commands. (2) LLM-based Command Reformulation prompting to tailor edit commands originally intended for specialized software into edit instructions suitable for generalist LMMs. (3) Moreover, DocEditAgent processes these outputs via Large Multimodal Models like GPT-4V and Gemini, to parse the document layout, execute edits on grounded Region of Interest (RoI), and generate the edited document image. Extensive experiments on the DocEdit dataset show that DocEditAgent significantly outperforms strong baselines on edit command generation (2-33{\\%}), RoI bounding box detection (12-31{\\%}), and overall document editing (1-12{\\%}) tasks."}
{"Title": "DogeRM: Equipping Reward Models with Domain Knowledge through Model Merging", "Abstract": "Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) is a popular strategy for aligning large language models (LLMs) with desired behaviors. Reward modeling is a crucial step in RLHF. However, collecting paired preference data for training reward models is often costly and time-consuming, especially for domain-specific preferences requiring expert annotation. To address this challenge, we propose the **Do**main knowled**ge** merged **R**eward **M**odel (**DogeRM**), a novel framework that integrates domain-specific knowledge into a general reward model by model merging. The experiments demonstrate that DogeRM enhances performance across different benchmarks and provide a detailed analysis showcasing the effects of model merging, showing the great potential of facilitating model alignment."}
{"Title": "Understanding Slang with LLMs: Modelling Cross-Cultural Nuances through Paraphrasing", "Abstract": "In the realm of social media discourse, the integration of slang enriches communication, reflecting the sociocultural identities of users. This study investigates the capability of large language models (LLMs) to paraphrase slang within climate-related tweets from Nigeria and the UK, with a focus on identifying emotional nuances. Using DistilRoBERTa as the base-line model, we observe its limited comprehension of slang. To improve cross-cultural understanding, we gauge the effectiveness of leading LLMs ChatGPT 4, Gemini, and LLaMA3 in slang paraphrasing. While ChatGPT 4 and Gemini demonstrate comparable effectiveness in slang paraphrasing, LLaMA3 shows less coverage, with all LLMs exhibiting limitations in coverage, especially of Nigerian slang. Our findings underscore the necessity for culturally sensitive LLM development in emotion classification, particularly in non-anglocentric regions."}
{"Title": "Unlocking Anticipatory Text Generation: A Constrained Approach for Large Language Models Decoding", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated a powerful ability for text generation. However, achieving optimal results with a given prompt or instruction can be challenging, especially for billion-sized models. Additionally, undesired behaviors such as toxicity or hallucinations can manifest. While much larger models (e.g., ChatGPT) may demonstrate strength in mitigating these issues, there is still no guarantee of complete prevention. In this work, we propose formalizing text generation as a future-constrained generation problem to minimize undesirable behaviors and enforce faithfulness to instructions. The estimation of future constraint satisfaction, accomplished using LLMs, guides the text generation process. Our extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach across three distinct text generation tasks: keyword-constrained generation (Lin et al., 2020), toxicity reduction (Gehman et al., 2020), and factual correctness in question-answering (Gao et al., 2023)."}
{"Title": "Re-Reading Improves Reasoning in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "To enhance the reasoning capabilities of off-the-shelf Large Language Models (LLMs), we introduce a simple, yet general and effective prompting method, RE2, i.e., Re-Reading the question as input. Unlike most thought-eliciting prompting methods, such as Chain-of-Thought (CoT), which aim to elicit the reasoning process in the output, RE2 shifts the focus to the input by processing questions twice, thereby enhancing the understanding process. Consequently, RE2 demonstrates strong generality and compatibility with most thought-eliciting prompting methods, including CoT. Crucially, RE2 facilitates a {``}bidirectional{''} encoding in unidirectional decoder-only LLMs because the first pass could provide global information for the second pass. We begin with a preliminary empirical study as the foundation of RE2, illustrating its potential to enable {``}bidirectional{''} attention mechanisms. We then evaluate RE2 on extensive reasoning benchmarks across 14 datasets, spanning 112 experiments, to validate its effectiveness and generality. Our findings indicate that, with the exception of a few scenarios on vanilla ChatGPT, RE2 consistently enhances the reasoning performance of LLMs through a simple re-reading strategy. Further analyses reveal RE2{'}s adaptability, showing how it can be effectively integrated with different LLMs, thought-eliciting prompting, and ensemble strategies."}
{"Title": "Adaptive Axes: A Pipeline for In-domain Social Stereotype Analysis", "Abstract": "Prior work has explored the possibility of using the semantic information obtained from embedding representations to quantify social stereotypes, leveraging techniques such as word embeddings combined with a list of traits (Garg et al., 2018; Charlesworth et al., 2022) or semantic axes (An et al., 2018; Lucy et al., 2022). However, these approaches have struggled to fully capture the variability in stereotypes across different conceptual domains for the same social group (e.g., black in science, health, and art), in part because the identity of a word and the associations formed during pre-training can dominate its contextual representation (Field and Tsvetkov, 2019). This study explores the ability to recover stereotypes from the contexts surrounding targeted entities by utilizing state-of-the-art text embedding models and adaptive semantic axes enhanced by large language models (LLMs). Our results indicate that the proposed pipeline not only surpasses token-based methods in capturing in-domain framing but also effectively tracks stereotypes over time and along domain-specific semantic axes for in-domain texts. Our research highlights the potential of employing text embedding models to achieve a deeper understanding of nuanced social stereotypes."}
{"Title": "ERVQA: A Dataset to Benchmark the Readiness of Large Vision Language Models in Hospital Environments", "Abstract": "The global shortage of healthcare workers has demanded the development of smart healthcare assistants, which can help monitor and alert healthcare workers when necessary. We examine the healthcare knowledge of existing Large Vision Language Models (LVLMs) via the Visual Question Answering (VQA) task in hospital settings through expert annotated open-ended questions. We introduce the Emergency Room Visual Question Answering (ERVQA) dataset, consisting of {\\textless}image, question, answer{\\textgreater} triplets covering diverse emergency room scenarios, a seminal benchmark for LVLMs. By developing a detailed error taxonomy and analyzing answer trends, we reveal the nuanced nature of the task. We benchmark state-of-the-art open-source and closed LVLMs using traditional and adapted VQA metrics: Entailment Score and CLIPScore Confidence. Analyzing errors across models, we infer trends based on properties like decoder type, model size, and in-context examples. Our findings suggest the ERVQA dataset presents a highly complex task, highlighting the need for specialized, domain-specific solutions."}
{"Title": "Human-LLM Hybrid Text Answer Aggregation for Crowd Annotations", "Abstract": "The quality is a crucial issue for crowd annotations. Answer aggregation is an important type of solution. The aggregated answers estimated from multiple crowd answers to the same instance are the eventually collected annotations, rather than the individual crowd answers themselves. Recently, the capability of Large Language Models (LLMs) on data annotation tasks has attracted interest from researchers. Most of the existing studies mainly focus on the average performance of individual crowd workers; several recent works studied the scenarios of aggregation on categorical labels and LLMs used as label creators. However, the scenario of aggregation on text answers and the role of LLMs as aggregators are not yet well-studied. In this paper, we investigate the capability of LLMs as aggregators in the scenario of close-ended crowd text answer aggregation. We propose a human-LLM hybrid text answer aggregation method with a Creator-Aggregator Multi-Stage (CAMS) crowdsourcing framework. We make the experiments based on public crowdsourcing datasets. The results show the effectiveness of our approach based on the collaboration of crowd workers and LLMs."}
{"Title": "Improve Student's Reasoning Generalizability through Cascading Decomposed CoTs Distillation", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) exhibit enhanced reasoning at larger scales, driving efforts to distill these capabilities into smaller models via teacher-student learning.Previous works simply fine-tune student models on teachers{'} generated Chain-of-Thoughts (CoTs) data. Although these methods enhance in-domain (IND) reasoning performance, they struggle to generalize to out-of-domain (OOD) tasks.We believe that the widespread spurious correlations between questions and answers may lead the model to preset a specific answer which restricts the diversity and generalizability of its reasoning process.In this paper, we propose \\textbf{Cas}cading Decomposed \\textbf{Co}Ts \\textbf{D}istillation (CasCoD) to address these issues by decomposing the traditional single-step learning process into two cascaded learning steps. Specifically, by restructuring the training objectives{---}removing the answer from outputs and concatenating the question with the rationale as input{---}CasCoD{'}s two-step learning process ensures that students focus on learning rationales without interference from the preset answers, thus improving reasoning generalizability. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of CasCoD on both IND and OOD benchmark reasoning datasets"}
{"Title": "Revisiting Supervised Contrastive Learning for Microblog Classification", "Abstract": "Microblog content (e.g., Tweets) is noisy due to its informal use of language and its lack of contextual information within each post. To tackle these challenges, state-of-the-art microblog classification models rely on pre-training language models (LMs). However, pre-training dedicated LMs is resource-intensive and not suitable for small labs. Supervised contrastive learning (SCL) has shown its effectiveness with small, available resources. In this work, we examine the effectiveness of fine-tuning transformer-based language models, regularized with a SCL loss for English microblog classification. Despite its simplicity, the evaluation on two English microblog classification benchmarks (TweetEval and Tweet Topic Classification) shows an improvement over baseline models. The result shows that, across all subtasks, our proposed method has a performance gain of up to 11.9 percentage points. All our models are open source."}
{"Title": "BaitAttack: Alleviating Intention Shift in Jailbreak Attacks via Adaptive Bait Crafting", "Abstract": "Jailbreak attacks enable malicious queries to evade detection by LLMs. Existing attacks focus on meticulously constructing prompts to disguise harmful intentions. However, the incorporation of sophisticated disguising prompts may incur the challenge of {``}intention shift{''}. Intention shift occurs when the additional semantics within the prompt distract the LLMs, causing the responses to deviate significantly from the original harmful intentions. In this paper, we propose a novel component, {``}bait{''}, to alleviate the effects of intention shift. Bait comprises an initial response to the harmful query, prompting LLMs to rectify or supplement the knowledge within the bait. By furnishing rich semantics relevant to the query, the bait helps LLMs focus on the original intention. To conceal the harmful content within the bait, we further propose a novel attack paradigm, BaitAttack. BaitAttack adaptively generates necessary components to persuade targeted LLMs that they are engaging with a legitimate inquiry in a safe context. Our proposal is evaluated on a popular dataset, demonstrating state-of-the-art attack performance and an exceptional capability for mitigating intention shift. The implementation of BaitAttack is accessible at: https://anonymous.4open.science/r/BaitAttack-D1F5."}
{"Title": "Images Speak Louder than Words: Understanding and Mitigating Bias in Vision-Language Model from a Causal Mediation Perspective", "Abstract": "Vision-language models (VLMs) pre-trained on extensive datasets can inadvertently learn biases by correlating gender information with specific objects or scenarios. Current methods, which focus on modifying inputs and monitoring changes in the model{'}s output probability scores, often struggle to comprehensively understand bias from the perspective of model components. We propose a framework that incorporates causal mediation analysis to measure and map the pathways of bias generation and propagation within VLMs. Our framework is applicable to a wide range of vision-language and multimodal tasks. In this work, we apply it to the object detection task and implement it on the GLIP model. This approach allows us to identify the direct effects of interventions on model bias and the indirect effects of interventions on bias mediated through different model components. Our results show that image features are the primary contributors to bias, with significantly higher impacts than text features, specifically accounting for 32.57{\\%} and 12.63{\\%} of the bias in the MSCOCO and PASCAL-SENTENCE datasets, respectively. Notably, the image encoder{'}s contribution surpasses that of the text encoder and the deep fusion encoder. Further experimentation confirms that contributions from both language and vision modalities are aligned and non-conflicting. Consequently, focusing on blurring gender representations within the image encoder which contributes most to the model bias, reduces bias efficiently by 22.03{\\%} and 9.04{\\%} in the MSCOCO and PASCAL-SENTENCE datasets, respectively, with minimal performance loss or increased computational demands."}
{"Title": "Mitigating the Language Mismatch and Repetition Issues in LLM-based Machine Translation via Model Editing", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently revolutionized the NLP field, while they still fall short in some specific down-stream tasks. In the work, we focus on utilizing LLMs to perform machine translation, where we observe that two patterns of errors frequently occur and drastically affect the translation quality: language mismatch and repetition. The work sets out to explore the potential for mitigating these two issues by leveraging model editing methods, e.g., by locating Feed-Forward Network (FFN) neurons or something that are responsible for the errors and deactivating them in the inference time.We find that directly applying such methods either limited effect on the targeted errors or has significant negative side-effect on the general translation quality, indicating that the located components may also be crucial for ensuring machine translation with LLMs on the rails.To this end, we propose to refine the located components by fetching the intersection of the locating results under different language settings, filtering out the aforementioned information that is irrelevant to targeted errors. The experiment results empirically demonstrate that our methods can effectively reduce the language mismatch and repetition ratios and meanwhile enhance or keep the general translation quality in most cases."}
{"Title": "SciAgent: Tool-augmented Language Models for Scientific Reasoning", "Abstract": "Scientific reasoning poses an excessive challenge for even the most advanced Large Language Models (LLMs). To make this task more practical and solvable for LLMs, we introduce a new task setting named tool-augmented scientific reasoning. This setting supplements LLMs with scalable toolsets, and shifts the focus from pursuing an omniscient problem solver to a proficient tool-user. To facilitate the research of such setting, we construct a tool-augmented training corpus named MathFunc which encompasses over 30,000 samples and roughly 6,000 tools. Building on MathFunc, we develop SciAgent to retrieve, understand and, if necessary, use tools for scientific problem solving. Additionally, we craft a benchmark, SciToolBench, spanning five scientific domains to evaluate LLMs{'} abilities with tool assistance. Extensive experiments on SciToolBench confirm the effectiveness of SciAgent. Notably, SciAgent-Llama3-8B surpasses other LLMs with the comparable size by more than 8.0{\\%} in absolute accuracy. Furthermore, SciAgent-DeepMath-7B shows much superior performance than ChatGPT."}
{"Title": "Global Reward to Local Rewards: Multimodal-Guided Decomposition for Improving Dialogue Agents", "Abstract": "We describe an approach for aligning an LLM based dialogue agent for long-term social dialogue, where there is only a single global score given by the user at the end of the session. In this paper, we propose the usage of denser naturally-occurring multimodal communicative signals as local implicit feedback to improve the turn-level utterance generation. Therefore, our approach (dubbed GELI) learns a local, turn-level reward model by decomposing the human-provided Global Explicit (GE) session level reward, using Local Implicit (LI) multimodal reward signals to crossmodally shape the reward decomposition step. This decomposed reward model is then used as part of the RLHF pipeline to improve an LLM-based dialog agent. We run quantitative and qualitative human studies on two large-scale datasets to evaluate the performance of our GELI approach, and find that it shows consistent improvements across various conversational metrics compared to baseline methods."}
{"Title": "Towards Measuring and Modeling \u201cCulture\u201d in LLMs: A Survey", "Abstract": "We present a survey of more than 90 recent papers that aim to study cultural representation and inclusion in large language models (LLMs). We observe that none of the studies explicitly define {``}culture, which is a complex, multifaceted concept; instead, they probe the models on some specially designed datasets which represent certain aspects of {``}culture{''}. We call these aspects the proxies of culture, and organize them across two dimensions of demographic and semantic proxies. We also categorize the probing methods employed. Our analysis indicates that only certain aspects of {``}culture,{''} such as values and objectives, have been studied, leaving several other interesting and important facets, especially the multitude of semantic domains (Thompson et al., 2020) and aboutness (Hershcovich et al., 2022), unexplored. Two other crucial gaps are the lack of robustness of probing techniques and situated studies on the impact of cultural mis- and under-representation in LLM-based applications."}
{"Title": "ESC-Eval: Evaluating Emotion Support Conversations in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Emotion Support Conversation (ESC) is a crucial application, which aims to reduce human stress, offer emotional guidance, and ultimately enhance human mental and physical well-being. With the advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs), many researchers have employed LLMs as the ESC models. However, the evaluation of these LLM-based ESCs remains uncertain. In detail, we first re-organize 2,801 role-playing cards from seven existing datasets to define the roles of the role-playing agent. Second, we train a specific role-playing model called ESC-Role which behaves more like a confused person than GPT-4. Third, through ESC-Role and organized role cards, we systematically conduct experiments using 14 LLMs as the ESC models, including general AI-assistant LLMs (e.g., ChatGPT) and ESC-oriented LLMs (e.g., ExTES-Llama). We conduct comprehensive human annotations on interactive multi-turn dialogues of different ESC models. The results show that ESC-oriented LLMs exhibit superior ESC abilities compared to general AI-assistant LLMs, but there is still a gap behind human performance. Moreover, to automate the scoring process for future ESC models, we developed ESC-RANK, which trained on the annotated data, achieving a scoring performance surpassing 35 points of GPT-4."}
{"Title": "Cultural Conditioning or Placebo? On the Effectiveness of Socio-Demographic Prompting", "Abstract": "Socio-demographic prompting is a commonly employed approach to study cultural biases in LLMs as well as for aligning models to certain cultures. In this paper, we systematically probe four LLMs (Llama 3, Mistral v0.2, GPT-3.5 Turbo and GPT4) with prompts that are conditioned on culturally sensitive and non-sensitive cues, on datasets that are supposed to be culturally sensitive (EtiCor and CALI) or neutral (MMLU and ETHICS). We observe that all models except GPT4 show significant variations in their responses on both kinds of datasets for both kinds of prompts, casting doubt on the robustness of the culturally-conditioned prompting as a method for eliciting cultural bias in models that are not sufficiently stable with respect to arbitrary prompting cues. Further, we also show that some of the supposedly culturally neutral datasets have a non-trivial fraction of culturally sensitive questions/tasks."}
{"Title": "Text Fluoroscopy: Detecting LLM-Generated Text through Intrinsic Features", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized the domain of natural language processing because of their excellent performance on various tasks. Despite their impressive capabilities, LLMs also have the potential to generate texts that pose risks of misuse. Consequently, detecting LLM-generated text has become increasingly important.Previous LLM-generated text detection methods use semantic features, which are stored in the last layer. This leads to methods that overfit the training set domain and exhibit shortcomings in generalization. Therefore, We argue that utilizing intrinsic features rather than semantic features for detection results in better performance.In this work, we design Text Fluoroscopy, a black-box method with better generalizability for detecting LLM-generated text by mining the intrinsic features of the text to be detected. Our method captures the text{'}s intrinsic features by identifying the layer with the largest distribution difference from the last and first layers when projected to the vocabulary space.Our method achieves 7.36{\\%} and 2.84{\\%} average improvement in detection performance compared to the baselines in detecting texts from different domains generated by GPT-4 and Claude3, respectively."}
{"Title": "Hate Personified: Investigating the role of LLMs in content moderation", "Abstract": "For subjective tasks such as hate detection, where people perceive hate differently, the Large Language Model{'}s (LLM) ability to represent diverse groups is unclear. By including additional context in prompts, we comprehensively analyze LLM{'}s sensitivity to geographical priming, persona attributes, and numerical information to assess how well the needs of various groups are reflected. Our findings on two LLMs, five languages, and six datasets reveal that mimicking persona-based attributes leads to annotation variability. Meanwhile, incorporating geographical signals leads to better regional alignment. We also find that the LLMs are sensitive to numerical anchors, indicating the ability to leverage community-based flagging efforts and exposure to adversaries. Our work provides preliminary guidelines and highlights the nuances of applying LLMs in culturally sensitive cases."}
{"Title": "Temporally Consistent Factuality Probing for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The prolific use of Large Language Models (LLMs) as an alternate knowledge base requires them to be factually consistent, necessitating both correctness and consistency traits for paraphrased queries. Recently, significant attempts have been made to benchmark datasets and metrics to evaluate LLMs for these traits. However, structural simplicity (subject-relation-object) and contemporary association in their query formulation limit the broader definition of factuality and consistency. In this study, we introduce TeCFaP, a novel Temporally Consistent Factuality Probe task to expand the consistent factuality probe in the temporal dimension. To this end, we propose TEMP-COFAC, a high-quality dataset of prefix-style English query paraphrases. Subsequently, we extend the definitions of existing metrics to represent consistent factuality across temporal dimension. We experiment with a diverse set of LLMs and find most of them performing poorly on TeCFaP. Next, we propose a novel solution CoTSeLF (Consistent-Time-Sensitive Learning Framework) combining multi-task instruction tuning (MT-IT) with consistent-time-sensitive reinforcement learning (CTSRL) to improve temporally consistent factuality in LLMs. Our experiments demonstrate the efficacy of CoTSeLF over several baselines."}
{"Title": "A Comparison of Language Modeling and Translation as Multilingual Pretraining Objectives", "Abstract": "Pretrained language models (PLMs) display impressive performances and have captured the attention of the NLP community.Establishing best practices in pretraining has, therefore, become a major focus of NLP research, especially since insights gained from monolingual English models may not necessarily apply to more complex multilingual models.One significant caveat of the current state of the art is that different works are rarely comparable: they often discuss different parameter counts, training data, and evaluation methodology.This paper proposes a comparison of multilingual pretraining objectives in a controlled methodological environment. We ensure that training data and model architectures are comparable, and discuss the downstream performances across 6 languages that we observe in probing and fine-tuning scenarios.We make two key observations: (1) the architecture dictates which pretraining objective is optimal; (2) multilingual translation is a very effective pretraining objective under the right conditions.We make our code, data, and model weights available at https://github.com/Helsinki-NLP/lm-vs-mt."}
{"Title": "Can LLMs replace Neil deGrasse Tyson? Evaluating the Reliability of LLMs as Science Communicators", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) and AI assistants driven by these models are experiencing exponential growth in usage among both expert and amateur users. In this work, we focus on evaluating the reliability of current LLMs as science communicators. Unlike existing benchmarks, our approach emphasizes assessing these models on scientific question-answering tasks that require a nuanced understanding and awareness of answerability. We introduce a novel dataset, SCiPS-QA, comprising 742 Yes/No queries embedded in complex scientific concepts, along with a benchmarking suite that evaluates LLMs for correctness and consistency across various criteria. We benchmark three proprietary LLMs from the OpenAI GPT family and 13 open-access LLMs from the Meta Llama-2, Llama-3, and Mistral families. While most open-access models significantly underperform compared to GPT-4 Turbo, our experiments identify Llama-3-70B as a strong competitor, often surpassing GPT-4 Turbo in various evaluation aspects. We also find that even the GPT models exhibit a general incompetence in reliably verifying LLM responses. Moreover, we observe an alarming trend where human evaluators are deceived by incorrect responses from GPT-4 Turbo."}
{"Title": "LLaMA-MoE: Building Mixture-of-Experts from LLaMA with Continual Pre-Training", "Abstract": "Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) has gained increasing popularity as a promising framework for scaling up large language models (LLMs). However, training MoE from scratch in a large-scale setting still suffers from data-hungry and instability problems. Motivated by this limit, we investigate building MoE models from existing dense large language models. Specifically, based on the well-known LLaMA-2 7B model, we obtain an MoE model by: (1) Expert Construction, which partitions the parameters of original Feed-Forward Networks (FFNs) into multiple experts; (2) Continual pre-training, which further trains the transformed MoE model and additional gate networks. In this paper, we comprehensively explore different methods for expert construction and various data sampling strategies for continual pre-training. After these stages, our LLaMA-MoE models could maintain language abilities and route the input tokens to specific experts with part of the parameters activated. Empirically, by training 200B tokens, LLaMA-MoE-3.5B models significantly outperform dense models that contain similar activation parameters."}
{"Title": "Themis: A Reference-free NLG Evaluation Language Model with Flexibility and Interpretability", "Abstract": "The evaluation of natural language generation (NLG) tasks is a significant and longstanding research area. With the recent emergence of powerful large language models (LLMs), some studies have turned to LLM-based automatic evaluation methods, which demonstrate great potential to become a new evaluation paradigm following traditional string-based and model-based metrics. However, despite the improved performance of existing methods, they still possess some deficiencies, such as dependency on references and limited evaluation flexibility. Therefore, in this paper, we meticulously construct a large-scale NLG evaluation corpus **NLG-Eval** with annotations from both human and GPT-4 to alleviate the lack of relevant data in this field. Furthermore, we propose **Themis**, an LLM dedicated to NLG evaluation, which has been trained with our designed multi-perspective consistency verification and rating-oriented preference alignment methods. Themis can conduct flexible and interpretable evaluations without references, and it exhibits superior evaluation performance on various NLG tasks, simultaneously generalizing well to unseen tasks and surpassing other evaluation models, including GPT-4."}
{"Title": "Mitigating Training Imbalance in LLM Fine-Tuning via Selective Parameter Merging", "Abstract": "Supervised fine-tuning (SFT) is crucial for adapting Large Language Models (LLMs) to specific tasks. In this work, we demonstrate that the order of training data can lead to significant training imbalances, potentially resulting in performance degradation. Consequently, we propose to mitigate this imbalance by merging SFT models fine-tuned with different data orders, thereby enhancing the overall effectiveness of SFT. Additionally, we introduce a novel technique, {``}parameter-selection merging,{''} which outperforms traditional weighted-average methods on five datasets. Further, through analysis and ablation studies, we validate the effectiveness of our method and identify the sources of performance improvements."}
{"Title": "Generating Demonstrations for In-Context Compositional Generalization in Grounded Language Learning", "Abstract": "In-Context-learning and few-shot prompting are viable methods compositional output generation. However, these methods can be very sensitive to the choice of support examples used. Retrieving good supports from the training data for a given test query is already a difficult problem, but in some cases solving this may not even be enough. We consider the setting of grounded language learning problems where finding relevant supports in the same or similar states as the query may be difficult. We design an agent which instead generates possible supports inputs and targets current state of the world, then uses them in-context-learning to solve the test query. We show substantially improved performance on a previously unsolved compositional generalization test without a loss of performance in other areas. The approach is general and can even scale to instructions expressed in natural language."}
{"Title": "FAME: Towards Factual Multi-Task Model Editing", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) embed extensive knowledge and utilize it to perform exceptionally well across various tasks. Nevertheless, outdated knowledge or factual errors within LLMs can lead to misleading or incorrect responses, causing significant issues in practical applications. To rectify the fatal flaw without the necessity for costly model retraining, various model editing approaches have been proposed to correct inaccurate information within LLMs in a cost-efficient way. To evaluate these model editing methods, previous work introduced a series of datasets. However, most of the previous datasets only contain fabricated data in a single format, which diverges from real-world model editing scenarios, raising doubts about their usability in practice. To facilitate the application of model editing in real-world scenarios, we propose the challenge of practicality. To resolve such challenges and effectively enhance the capabilities of LLMs, we present FAME, an authentic, comprehensive, and multi-task dataset, which is designed to enhance the practicality of model editing. We then propose SKEME, a model editing method that uses a novel caching mechanism to ensure synchronization with the real world. The experiments demonstrate that our method performs excellently across various tasks and scenarios, confirming its practicality."}
{"Title": "MLLM-Protector: Ensuring MLLM's Safety without Hurting Performance", "Abstract": "The deployment of multimodal large language models (MLLMs) has brought forth a unique vulnerability: susceptibility to malicious attacks through visual inputs. This paper investigates the novel challenge of defending MLLMs against such attacks. Compared to large language models (LLMs), MLLMs include an additional image modality. We discover that images act as a {``}foreign language{''} that is not considered during safety alignment, making MLLMs more prone to producing harmful responses. Unfortunately, unlike the discrete tokens considered in text-based LLMs, the continuous nature of image signals presents significant alignment challenges, which poses difficulty to thoroughly cover all possible scenarios. This vulnerability is exacerbated by the fact that most state-of-the-art MLLMs are fine-tuned on limited image-text pairs that are much fewer than the extensive text-based pretraining corpus, which makes the MLLMs more prone to catastrophic forgetting of their original abilities during safety fine-tuning. To tackle these challenges, we introduce MLLM-Protector, a plug-and-play strategy that solves two subtasks: 1) identifying harmful responses via a lightweight harm detector, and 2) transforming harmful responses into harmless ones via a detoxifier. This approach effectively mitigates the risks posed by malicious visual inputs without compromising the original performance of MLLMs. Our results demonstrate that MLLM-Protector offers a robust solution to a previously unaddressed aspect of MLLM security."}
{"Title": "Leveraging Large Language Models for NLG Evaluation: Advances and Challenges", "Abstract": "In the rapidly evolving domain of Natural Language Generation (NLG) evaluation, introducing Large Language Models (LLMs) has opened new avenues for assessing generated content quality, e.g., coherence, creativity, and context relevance. This paper aims to provide a thorough overview of leveraging LLMs for NLG evaluation, a burgeoning area that lacks a systematic analysis. We propose a coherent taxonomy for organizing existing LLM-based evaluation metrics, offering a structured framework to understand and compare these methods. Our detailed exploration includes critically assessing various LLM-based methodologies, as well as comparing their strengths and limitations in evaluating NLG outputs. By discussing unresolved challenges, including bias, robustness, domain-specificity, and unified evaluation, this paper seeks to offer insights to researchers and advocate for fairer and more advanced NLG evaluation techniques."}
{"Title": "InfiniPot: Infinite Context Processing on Memory-Constrained LLMs", "Abstract": "Handling long input contexts remains a significant challenge for Large Language Models (LLMs), particularly in resource-constrained environments such as mobile devices. Our work aims to address this limitation by introducing InfiniPot, a novel KV cache control framework designed to enable pre-trained LLMs to manage extensive sequences within fixed memory constraints efficiently, without requiring additional training. InfiniPot leverages Continual Context Distillation (CCD), an iterative process that compresses and retains essential information through novel importance metrics, effectively maintaining critical data even without access to future context. Our comprehensive evaluations indicate that InfiniPot significantly outperforms models trained for long contexts in various NLP tasks, establishing its efficacy and versatility. This work represents a substantial advancement toward making LLMs applicable to a broader range of real-world scenarios."}
{"Title": "VideoCLIP-XL: Advancing Long Description Understanding for Video CLIP Models", "Abstract": "Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP) has been widely studied and applied in numerous applications. However, the emphasis on brief summary texts during pre-training prevents CLIP from understanding long descriptions. This issue is particularly acute regarding videos given that videos often contain abundant detailed contents. In this paper, we propose the VideoCLIP-XL (eXtra Length) model, which aims to unleash the long-description understanding capability of video CLIP models. Firstly, we establish an automatic data collection system and gather a large-scale VILD pre-training dataset with VIdeo and Long-Description pairs. Then, we propose Text-similarity-guided Primary Component Matching (TPCM) to better learn the distribution of feature space while expanding the long description capability. We also introduce two new tasks namely Detail-aware Description Ranking (DDR) and Hallucination-aware Description Ranking (HDR) for further understanding improvement. Finally, we construct a Long Video Description Ranking (LVDR) benchmark for evaluating the long-description capability more comprehensively. Extensive experimental results on widely-used text-video retrieval benchmarks with both short and long descriptions and our LVDR benchmark can fully demonstrate the effectiveness of our method."}
{"Title": "CorrSynth - A Correlated Sampling Method for Diverse Dataset Generation from LLMs", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable performance in diverse tasks using zero-shot and few-shot prompting. Even though their capabilities of data synthesis have been studied well in recent years, the generated data suffers from a lack of diversity, less adherence to the prompt, and potential biases that creep into the data from the generator model. In this work, we tackle the challenge of generating datasets with high diversity, upon which a student model is trained for downstream tasks. Taking the route of decoding-time guidance-based approaches, we propose CorrSynth, which generates data that is more diverse and faithful to the input prompt using a correlated sampling strategy. Further, our method overcomes the complexity drawbacks of some other guidance-based techniques like classifier-based guidance. With extensive experiments, we show the effectiveness of our approach and substantiate our claims. In particular, we perform intrinsic evaluation to show the improvements in diversity. Our experiments show that CorrSynth improves both student metrics and intrinsic metrics upon competitive baselines across four datasets, showing the innate advantage of our method."}
{"Title": "Defining Knowledge: Bridging Epistemology and Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Knowledge claims are abundant in the literature on large language models (LLMs); but can we say that GPT-4 truly {``}knows{''} the Earth is round? To address this question, we review standard definitions of knowledge in epistemology and we formalize interpretations applicable to LLMs. In doing so, we identify inconsistencies and gaps in how current NLP research conceptualizes knowledge with respect to epistemological frameworks. Additionally, we conduct a survey of 100 professional philosophers and computer scientists to compare their preferences in knowledge definitions and their views on whether LLMs can really be said to know. Finally, we suggest evaluation protocols for testing knowledge in accordance to the most relevant definitions."}
{"Title": "TKGT: Redefinition and A New Way of Text-to-Table Tasks Based on Real World Demands and Knowledge Graphs Augmented LLMs", "Abstract": "The task of text-to-table receives widespread attention, yet its importance and difficulty are underestimated. Existing works use simple datasets similar to table-to-text tasks and employ methods that ignore domain structures. As a bridge between raw text and statistical analysis, the text-to-table task often deals with complex semi-structured texts that refer to specific domain topics in the real world with entities and events, especially from those of social sciences. In this paper, we analyze the limitations of benchmark datasets and methods used in the text-to-table literature and redefine the text-to-table task to improve its compatibility with long text-processing tasks. Based on this redefinition, we propose a new dataset called CPL (Chinese Private Lending), which consists of judgments from China and is derived from a real-world legal academic project. We further propose TKGT (Text-KG-Table), a two stages domain-aware pipeline, which firstly generates domain knowledge graphs (KGs) classes semi-automatically from raw text with the mixed information extraction (Mixed-IE) method, then adopts the hybrid retrieval augmented generation (Hybird-RAG) method to transform it to tables for downstream needs under the guidance of KGs classes. Experiment results show that TKGT achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance on both traditional datasets and the CPL. Our data and main code are available at https://github.com/jiangpw41/TKGT."}
{"Title": "Free your mouse! Command Large Language Models to Generate Code to Format Word Documents", "Abstract": "Recently, LLMs have significantly improved code generation, making it increasingly accessible to users. As a result, LLM-powered code generation applications have sprung up, vastly boosting user productivity. This paper mainly explores how to improve the efficiency and experience of users in formatting the document. Specifically, we propose an automatic document formatting method, Text-to-Format, which is driven by various prompting strategies. Text-to-Format takes the user{'}s formatting instructions and then generates code that can be run in Microsoft Word to format the content in a document. Further, to evaluate automatic document formatting approaches and advance the document formatting task, we built an evaluation specification including a high-quality dataset DocFormEval data, a code runtime environment, and evaluation metrics. Extensive experimental results on data reveal that the prompting strategy{'}s effect positively correlates with how much knowledge it introduces related to document formatting task. We believe the constructed DocFormEval data and the exploration about Text-to-Format can help developers build more intelligent tools for automatic document formatting, especially in offline scenarios, where the data privacy is the top priority."}
{"Title": "CMR Scaling Law: Predicting Critical Mixture Ratios for Continual Pre-training of Language Models", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) excel in diverse tasks but often underperform in specialized fields due to limited domain-specific or proprietary corpus. Continual pre-training (CPT) enhances LLM capabilities by imbuing new domain-specific or proprietary knowledge while replaying general corpus to prevent catastrophic forgetting. The data mixture ratio of general corpus and domain-specific corpus, however, has been chosen heuristically, leading to sub-optimal training efficiency in practice. In this context, we attempt to re-visit the scaling behavior of LLMs under the hood of CPT, and discover a power-law relationship between loss, mixture ratio, and training tokens scale. We formalize the trade-off between general and domain-specific capabilities, leading to a well-defined Critical Mixture Ratio (CMR) of general and domain data. By striking the balance, CMR maintains the model{'}s general ability and achieves the desired domain transfer, ensuring the highest utilization of available resources. Considering the balance between efficiency and effectiveness, CMR can be regarded as the optimal mixture ratio. Through extensive experiments, we ascertain the predictability of CMR, propose CMR scaling law and have substantiated its generalization. These findings offer practical guidelines for optimizing LLM training in specialized domains, ensuring both general and domain-specific performance while efficiently managing training resources."}
{"Title": "The Instinctive Bias: Spurious Images lead to Illusion in MLLMs", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have recently experienced remarkable progress, where the advent of multi-modal large language models (MLLMs) has endowed LLMs with visual capabilities, leading to impressive performances in various multi-modal tasks. However, those powerful MLLMs such as GPT-4V still fail spectacularly when presented with certain image and text inputs. In this paper, we identify a typical class of inputs that baffles MLLMs, which consist of images that are highly relevant but inconsistent with answers, causing MLLMs to suffer from visual illusion. To quantify the effect, we propose CorrelationQA, the first benchmark that assesses the visual illusion level given spurious images. This benchmark contains 7,308 text-image pairs across 13 categories. Based on the proposed CorrelationQA, we conduct a thorough analysis on 9 mainstream MLLMs, illustrating that they universally suffer from this instinctive bias to varying degrees. We hope that our curated benchmark and evaluation results aid in better assessments of the MLLMs{'} robustness in the presence of misleading images. The code and datasets are available at https://github.com/MasaiahHan/CorrelationQA."}
{"Title": "Rationale-Aware Answer Verification by Pairwise Self-Evaluation", "Abstract": "Answer verification identifies correct solutions among candidates generated by large language models (LLMs). Current approaches typically train verifier models by labeling solutions as correct or incorrect based solely on whether the final answer matches the gold answer. However, this approach neglects any flawed rationale in the solution yielding the correct answer, undermining the verifier{'}s ability to distinguish between sound and flawed rationales. We empirically show that in StrategyQA, only 19{\\%} of LLM-generated solutions with correct answers have valid rationales, thus leading to an unreliable verifier. Furthermore, we demonstrate that training a verifier on valid rationales significantly improves its ability to distinguish valid and flawed rationale. To make a better verifier without extra human supervision, we introduce REPS (Rationale Enhancement through Pairwise Selection), a method for selecting valid rationales from candidates by iteratively applying pairwise self-evaluation using the same LLM that generates the solutions. Verifiers trained on solutions selected by REPS outperform those trained using conventional training methods on three reasoning benchmarks (ARC-Challenge, DROP, and StrategyQA). Our results suggest that training reliable verifiers requires ensuring the validity of rationales in addition to the correctness of the final answers, which would be critical for models assisting humans in solving complex reasoning tasks."}
{"Title": "On the Robustness of Editing Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have played a pivotal role in building communicative AI, yet they encounter the challenge of efficient updates. Model editing enables the manipulation of specific knowledge memories and the behavior of language generation without retraining. However, the robustness of model editing remains an open question. This work seeks to understand the strengths and limitations of editing methods, facilitating practical applications of communicative AI. We focus on three key research questions. RQ1: Can edited LLMs behave consistently resembling communicative AI in realistic situations? RQ2: To what extent does the rephrasing of prompts lead LLMs to deviate from the edited knowledge memory? RQ3: Which knowledge features are correlated with the performance and robustness of editing? Our empirical studies uncover a substantial disparity between existing editing methods and the practical application of LLMs. On rephrased prompts that are flexible but common in realistic applications, the performance of editing experiences a significant decline. Further analysis shows that more popular knowledge is memorized better, easier to recall, and more challenging to edit effectively."}
{"Title": "IM-BERT: Enhancing Robustness of BERT through the Implicit Euler Method", "Abstract": "Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs) have achieved remarkable performance on diverse NLP tasks through pre-training and fine-tuning. However, fine-tuning the model with a large number of parameters on limited downstream datasets often leads to vulnerability to adversarial attacks, causing overfitting of the model on standard datasets. To address these issues, we propose IM-BERT from the perspective of a dynamic system by conceptualizing a layer of BERT as a solution of Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs). Under the situation of initial value perturbation, we analyze the numerical stability of two main numerical ODE solvers: *the explicit and implicit Euler approaches.* Based on these analyses, we introduce a numerically robust IM-connection incorporating BERT{'}s layers. This strategy enhances the robustness of PLMs against adversarial attacks, even in low-resource scenarios, without introducing additional parameters or adversarial training strategies. Experimental results on the adversarial GLUE (AdvGLUE) dataset validate the robustness of IM-BERT under various conditions. Compared to the original BERT, IM-BERT exhibits a performance improvement of approximately 8.3{\\%}p on the AdvGLUE dataset. Furthermore, in low-resource scenarios, IM-BERT outperforms BERT by achieving 5.9{\\%}p higher accuracy."}
{"Title": "Distract Large Language Models for Automatic Jailbreak Attack", "Abstract": "Extensive efforts have been made before the public release of Large language models (LLMs) to align their behaviors with human values. However, even meticulously aligned LLMs remain vulnerable to malicious manipulations such as jailbreaking, leading to unintended behaviors. In this work, we propose a novel black-box jailbreak framework for automated red teaming of LLMs. We designed malicious content concealing and memory reframing with an iterative optimization algorithm to jailbreak LLMs, motivated by the research about the distractibility and over-confidence phenomenon of LLMs. Extensive experiments of jailbreaking both open-source and proprietary LLMs demonstrate the superiority of our framework in terms of effectiveness, scalability and transferability. We also evaluate the effectiveness of existing jailbreak defense methods against our attack and highlight the crucial need to develop more effective and practical defense strategies."}
{"Title": "Exploring Space Efficiency in a Tree-based Linear Model for Extreme Multi-label Classification", "Abstract": "Extreme multi-label classification (XMC) aims to identify relevant subsets from numerous labels. Among the various approaches for XMC, tree-based linear models are effective due to their superior efficiency and simplicity. However, the space complexity of tree-based methods is not well-studied. Many past works assume that storing the model is not affordable and apply techniques such as pruning to save space, which may lead to performance loss. In this work, we conduct both theoretical and empirical analyses on the space to store a tree model under the assumption of sparse data, a condition frequently met in text data. We found that, some features may be unused when training binary classifiers in a tree method, resulting in zero values in the weight vectors. Hence, storing only non-zero elements can greatly save space. Our experimental results indicate that tree models can require less than 10{\\%} of the size of the standard one-vs-rest method for multi-label text classification. Our research provides a simple procedure to estimate the size of a tree model before training any classifier in the tree nodes. Then, if the model size is already acceptable, this approach can help avoid modifying the model through weight pruning or other techniques."}
{"Title": "WorryWords: Norms of Anxiety Association for over 44k English Words", "Abstract": "Anxiety, the anticipatory unease about a potential negative outcome, is a common and beneficial human emotion. However, there is still much that is not known about anxiety, such as how it relates to our body and how it manifests in language; especially pertinent given the increasing impact of related disorders.In this work,we introduce \\textit{WorryWords}, the first large-scale repository of manually derived word{--}anxiety associations for over 44,450 English words. We show that the anxiety associations are highly reliable.We use WorryWords to study the relationship between anxiety and other emotion constructs, as well as the rate at which children acquire anxiety words with age. Finally, we show that using WorryWords alone, one can accurately track the change of anxiety in streams of text.WorryWords enables a wide variety of anxiety-related research in psychology, NLP, public health, and social sciences.WorryWords (and its translations to over 100 languages) is freely available. http://saifmohammad.com/worrywords.html"}
{"Title": "Finding Blind Spots in Evaluator LLMs with Interpretable Checklists", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly relied upon to evaluate text outputs of other LLMs, thereby influencing leaderboards and development decisions. However, concerns persist over the accuracy of these assessments and the potential for misleading conclusions. In this work, we investigate the effectiveness of LLMs as evaluators for text generation tasks. We propose FBI, a novel framework designed to examine the proficiency of Evaluator LLMs in assessing four critical abilities in other LLMs: factual accuracy, instruction following, coherence in long-form writing, and reasoning proficiency. By introducing targeted perturbations in answers generated by LLMs, that clearly impact one of these key capabilities, we test whether an Evaluator LLM can detect these quality drops. By creating a total of 2400 perturbed answers covering 22 perturbation categories, we conduct a comprehensive study using different evaluation strategies on five prominent LLMs commonly used as evaluators in the literature. Our findings reveal significant shortcomings in current Evaluator LLMs, which failed to identify quality drops in over 50{\\%} of cases on average. Single-answer and pairwise evaluations demonstrated notable limitations, whereas reference-based evaluations showed comparatively better performance. \\textit{These results underscore the unreliable nature of current Evaluator LLMs and advocate for cautious implementation in practical applications.}"}
{"Title": "LONGAGENT: Achieving Question Answering for 128k-Token-Long Documents through Multi-Agent Collaboration", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have achieved tremendous success in understanding language and processing text. However, question-answering (QA) on lengthy documents faces challenges of resource constraints and a high propensity for errors, even for the most advanced models such as GPT-4 and Claude2.In this paper, we introduce {\\_}LongAgent{\\_}, a multi-agent collaboration method that enables efficient and effective QA over $128k$-token-long documents. {\\_}LongAgent{\\_} adopts a {\\_}divide-and-conquer{\\_} strategy, breaking down lengthy documents into shorter, more manageable text chunks. A leader agent comprehends the user{'}s query and organizes the member agents to read their assigned chunks, reasoning a final answer through multiple rounds of discussion.Due to members{'} hallucinations, it{'}s difficult to guarantee that every response provided by each member is accurate.To address this, we develop an {\\_}inter-member communication{\\_} mechanism that facilitates information sharing, allowing for the detection and mitigation of hallucinatory responses.Experimental results show that a LLaMA-2 7B driven by {\\_}LongAgent{\\_} can effectively support QA over $128k$-token documents, achieving 16.42{\\%} and 1.63{\\%} accuracy gains over GPT-4 on single-hop and multi-hop QA settings, respectively."}
{"Title": "AutoPersuade: A Framework for Evaluating and Explaining Persuasive Arguments", "Abstract": "We introduce a three-part framework for constructing persuasive messages, AutoPersuade. First, we curate a large collection of arguments and gather human evaluations of their persuasiveness. Next, we introduce a novel topic model to identify the features of these arguments that influence persuasion. Finally, we use the model to predict the persuasiveness of new arguments and to assess the causal effects of argument components, offering an explanation of the results. We demonstrate the effectiveness of AutoPersuade in an experimental study on arguments for veganism, validating our findings through human studies and out-of-sample predictions."}
{"Title": "Towards Cross-Cultural Machine Translation with Retrieval-Augmented Generation from Multilingual Knowledge Graphs", "Abstract": "Translating text that contains entity names is a challenging task, as cultural-related references can vary significantly across languages. These variations may also be caused by transcreation, an adaptation process that entails more than transliteration and word-for-word translation. In this paper, we address the problem of cross-cultural translation on two fronts: (i) we introduce XC-Translate, the first large-scale, manually-created benchmark for machine translation that focuses on text that contains potentially culturally-nuanced entity names, and (ii) we propose KG-MT, a novel end-to-end method to integrate information from a multilingual knowledge graph into a neural machine translation model by leveraging a dense retrieval mechanism. Our experiments and analyses show that current machine translation systems and large language models still struggle to translate texts containing entity names, whereas KG-MT outperforms state-of-the-art approaches by a large margin, obtaining a 129{\\%} and 62{\\%} relative improvement compared to NLLB-200 and GPT-4, respectively."}
{"Title": "Exploring the Compositional Deficiency of Large Language Models in Mathematical Reasoning Through Trap Problems", "Abstract": "Human cognition exhibits systematic compositionality, the algebraic ability to generate infinite novel combinations from finite learned components, which is the key to understanding and reasoning about complex logic. In this work, we investigate the compositionality of large language models (LLMs) in mathematical reasoning. Specifically, we construct a new dataset MathTrap by introducing carefully designed logical traps into the problem descriptions of MATH and GSM8K. Since problems with logical flaws are quite rare in the real world, these represent {``}unseen{''} cases to LLMs. Solving these requires the models to systematically compose (1) the mathematical knowledge involved in the original problems with (2) knowledge related to the introduced traps. Our experiments show that while LLMs possess both components of requisite knowledge, they do not \\textbf{spontaneously} combine them to handle these novel cases. We explore several methods to mitigate this deficiency, such as natural language prompts, few-shot demonstrations, and fine-tuning. We find that LLMs{'} performance can be improved through the above external intervention. Overall, systematic compositionality remains an open challenge for large language models."}
{"Title": "Scaling Laws for Linear Complexity Language Models", "Abstract": "The interest in linear complexity models for large language models is on the rise, although their scaling capacity remains uncertain. In this study, we present the scaling laws for linear complexity language models to establish a foundation for their scalability. Specifically, we examine the scaling behaviors of three efficient linear architectures. These include TNL, a linear attention model with data-independent decay; HGRN2, a linear RNN with data-dependent decay; and cosFormer2, a linear attention model without decay. We also include LLaMA as a baseline architecture for comparison with softmax attention. These models were trained with six variants, ranging from 70M to 7B parameters on a 300B-token corpus, and evaluated with a total of 1,376 intermediate checkpoints on various downstream tasks. These tasks include validation loss, commonsense reasoning, and information retrieval and generation. The study reveals that existing linear complexity language models exhibit similar scaling capabilities as conventional transformer-based models while also demonstrating superior linguistic proficiency and knowledge retention."}
{"Title": "Autoregressive Multi-trait Essay Scoring via Reinforcement Learning with Scoring-aware Multiple Rewards", "Abstract": "Recent advances in automated essay scoring (AES) have shifted towards evaluating multiple traits to provide enriched feedback. Like typical AES systems, multi-trait AES employs the quadratic weighted kappa (QWK) to measure agreement with human raters, aligning closely with the rating schema; however, its non-differentiable nature prevents its direct use in neural network training. In this paper, we propose Scoring-aware Multi-reward Reinforcement Learning (SaMRL), which integrates actual evaluation schemes into the training process by designing QWK-based rewards with a mean-squared error penalty for multi-trait AES. Existing reinforcement learning (RL) applications in AES are limited to classification models despite associated performance degradation, as RL requires probability distributions; instead, we adopt an autoregressive score generation framework to leverage token generation probabilities for robust multi-trait score predictions. Empirical analyses demonstrate that SaMRL facilitates model training, notably enhancing scoring of previously inferior prompts."}
{"Title": "Intrinsic Self-correction for Enhanced Morality: An Analysis of Internal Mechanisms and the Superficial Hypothesis", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) are capable of producing content that perpetuates stereotypes, discrimination, and toxicity.The recently proposed \\textit{moral self-correction} is a computationally efficient method for reducing harmful content in the responses of LLMs. However, the process of how injecting self-correction instructions can modify the behavior of LLMs remains under-explored. In this paper, we explore the effectiveness of moral self-correction by answering three research questions: (1) In what scenarios does moral self-correction work? (2) What are the internal mechanisms of LLMs, e.g., hidden states, that are influenced by moral self-correction instructions? (3) Is intrinsic moral self-correction actually superficial in terms of reduced immorality in hidden states? We argue that self-correction can help LLMs find a shortcut to more morally correct output, rather than truly reducing the immorality stored in hidden states.Through empirical investigation with tasks of language generation and multi-choice question answering, we conclude: (i) LLMs exhibit good performance across both tasks, and self-correction instructions are particularly beneficial when the correct answer is already top-ranked; (ii) The morality levels in intermediate hidden states are strong indicators as to whether one instruction would be more effective than another; (iii) Based on our analysis of intermediate hidden states and task case studies of self-correction behaviors, we are first to propose the hypothesis that intrinsic moral self-correction is in fact superficial."}
{"Title": "ATAP: Automatic Template-Augmented Commonsense Knowledge Graph Completion via Pre-Trained Language Models", "Abstract": "The mission of commonsense knowledge graph completion (CKGC) is to infer missing facts from known commonsense knowledge. CKGC methods can be roughly divided into two categories: triple-based methods and text-based methods. Due to the imbalanced distribution of entities and limited structural information, triple-based methods struggle with long-tail entities. Text-based methods alleviate this issue, but require extensive training and fine-tuning of language models, which reduces efficiency. To alleviate these problems, we propose ATAP, the first CKGC framework that utilizes automatically generated continuous prompt templates combined with pre-trained language models (PLMs). Moreover, ATAP uses a carefully designed new prompt template training strategy, guiding PLMs to generate optimal prompt templates for CKGC tasks. Combining the rich knowledge of PLMs with the template automatic augmentation strategy, ATAP effectively mitigates the long-tail problem and enhances CKGC performance. Results on benchmark datasets show that ATAP achieves state-of-the-art performance overall."}
{"Title": "LM2: A Simple Society of Language Models Solves Complex Reasoning", "Abstract": "Despite demonstrating emergent reasoning abilities, Large Language Models (LLMS) often lose track of complex, multi-step reasoning. Existing studies show that providing guidance via decomposing the original question into multiple subproblems elicits more robustness in LLM reasoning {--} a decomposer generates the subproblems, and a solver solves each of these subproblems. However, these techniques fail to accommodate coordination between the decomposer and the solver modules (either in a single model or different specialized ones) {--} the decomposer does not keep track of the ability of the solver to follow the decomposed reasoning. In this paper, we propose LM2 to address these challenges. LM2 modularizes the decomposition, solution, and verification into three different language models. The decomposer module identifies the key concepts necessary to solve the problem and generates step-by-step subquestions according to the reasoning requirement. The solver model generates the solution to the subproblems that are then checked by the verifier module; depending upon the feedback from the verifier, the reasoning context is constructed using the subproblems and the solutions. These models are trained to coordinate using policy learning. Exhaustive experimentation suggests the superiority of LM2 over existing methods on in- and out-domain reasoning problems, outperforming the best baselines by 8.1{\\%} on MATH, 7.71{\\%} on JEEBench, and 9.7{\\%} on MedQA problems (code available at https://github.com/ LCS2-IIITD/Language{\\_}Model{\\_}Multiplex)."}
{"Title": "Towards a Similarity-adjusted Surprisal Theory", "Abstract": "Surprisal theory posits that the cognitive effort required to comprehend a word is determined by its contextual predictability, quantified assurprisal. Traditionally, surprisal theory treats words as distinct entities, overlooking any potential similarity between them. Giulianelli et al. (2023) address this limitation by introducing information value, a measure of predictability designed to account for similarities between communicative units. Our work leverages Ricotta and Szeidl{'}s (2006) diversity index to extend surprisal into a metric that we term similarity-adjusted surprisal, exposing a mathematical relationship between surprisal and information value. Similarity-adjusted surprisal aligns with information value when considering graded similarities and reduces to standard surprisal when words are treated as distinct. Experimental results with reading time data indicate that similarity-adjusted surprisal adds predictive power beyond standard surprisal for certain datasets, suggesting it serves as a complementary measure of comprehension effort."}
{"Title": "Multi-Level Information Retrieval Augmented Generation for Knowledge-based Visual Question Answering", "Abstract": "The Knowledge-Aware Visual Question Answering about Entity task aims to disambiguate entities using textual and visual information, as well as knowledge. It usually relies on two independent steps, information retrieval then reading comprehension, that do not benefit each other. Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) offers a solution by using generated answers as feedback for retrieval training. RAG usually relies solely on pseudo-relevant passages retrieved from external knowledge bases which can lead to ineffective answer generation. In this work, we propose a multi-level information RAG approach that enhances answer generation through entity retrieval and query expansion. We formulate a joint-training RAG loss such that answer generation is conditioned on both entity and passage retrievals. We show through experiments new state-of-the-art performance on the VIQuAE KB-VQA benchmark and demonstrate that our approach can help retrieve more actual relevant knowledge to generate accurate answers."}
{"Title": "Can We Trust the Performance Evaluation of Uncertainty Estimation Methods in Text Summarization?", "Abstract": "Text summarization, a key natural language generation (NLG) task, is vital in various domains. However, the high cost of inaccurate summaries in risk-critical applications, particularly those involving human-in-the-loop decision-making, raises concerns about the reliability of uncertainty estimation on text summarization (UE-TS) evaluation methods. This concern stems from the dependency of uncertainty model metrics on diverse and potentially conflicting NLG metrics. To address this issue, we introduce a comprehensive UE-TS benchmark incorporating 31 NLG metrics across four dimensions. The benchmark evaluates the uncertainty estimation capabilities of two large language models and one pre-trained language model on three datasets, with human-annotation analysis incorporated where applicable. We also assess the performance of 14 common uncertainty estimation methods within this benchmark. Our findings emphasize the importance of considering multiple uncorrelated NLG metrics and diverse uncertainty estimation methods to ensure reliable and efficient evaluation of UE-TS techniques. Our code and data are available: https://github.com/he159ok/Benchmark-of-Uncertainty-Estimation-Methods-in-Text-Summarization."}
{"Title": "Is It Really Long Context if All You Need Is Retrieval? Towards Genuinely Difficult Long Context NLP", "Abstract": "Improvements in language models{'} capabilities have pushed their applications towards longer contexts, making long-context evaluation and development an active research area. However, many disparate use-cases are grouped together under the umbrella term of {``}long-context{''}, defined simply by the total length of the model{'}s input, including - for example - Needle-in-a-Haystack tasks, book summarization, and information aggregation. Given their varied difficulty, in this position paper we argue that conflating different tasks by their context length is unproductive. As a community, we require a more precise vocabulary to understand what makes long-context tasks similar or different. We propose to unpack the taxonomy of long-context based on the properties that make them more difficult with longer contexts. We propose two orthogonal axes of difficulty: (I) Diffusion: How hard is it to find the necessary information in the context? (II) Scope: How much necessary information is there to find? We survey the literature on long-context, provide justification for this taxonomy as an informative descriptor, and situate the literature with respect to it. We conclude that the most difficult and interesting settings, whose necessary information is very long and highly diffused within the input, is severely under-explored. By using a descriptive vocabulary and discussing the relevant properties of difficulty in long-context, we can implement more informed research in this area. We call for a careful design of tasks and benchmarks with distinctly long context, taking into account the characteristics that make it qualitatively different from shorter context."}
{"Title": "BPE Gets Picky: Efficient Vocabulary Refinement During Tokenizer Training", "Abstract": "Language models can greatly benefit from efficient tokenization. However, they still mostly utilize the classical Byte-Pair Encoding (BPE) algorithm, a simple and reliable method. BPE has been shown to cause such issues as under-trained tokens and sub-optimal compression that may affect the downstream performance. We introduce PickyBPE, a modified BPE algorithm that carries out vocabulary refinement during tokenizer training by removing merges that leave intermediate {``}junk{''} tokens. Our method improves vocabulary efficiency, eliminates under-trained tokens, and does not compromise text compression. Our experiments show that this method either improves downstream performance or does not harm it."}
{"Title": "SEGMENT+: Long Text Processing with Short-Context Language Models", "Abstract": "There is a growing interest in expanding the input capacity of language models (LMs) across various domains. However, simply increasing the context window does not guarantee robust performance across diverse long-input processing tasks, such as understanding extensive documents and extracting detailed information from lengthy and noisy data. In response, we introduce Segment+, a general framework that enables LMs to handle extended inputs within limited context windows efficiently. Segment+ utilizes structured notes and a filtering module to manage information flow, resulting in a system that is both controllable and interpretable. Our extensive experiments across various model sizes, focusing on long-document question-answering and Needle-in-a-Haystack tasks, demonstrate the effectiveness of Segment+ in improving performance."}
{"Title": "Explicit Memory Learning with Expectation Maximization", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Closing the Loop: Learning to Generate Writing Feedback via Language Model Simulated Student Revisions", "Abstract": "Providing feedback is widely recognized as crucial for refining students{'} writing skills. Recent advances in language models (LMs) have made it possible to automatically generate feedback that is actionable and well-aligned with human-specified attributes. However, it remains unclear whether the feedback generated by these models is truly effective in enhancing the quality of student revisions. Moreover, prompting LMs with a precise set of instructions to generate feedback is nontrivial due to the lack of consensus regarding the specific attributes that can lead to improved revising performance. To address these challenges, we propose PROF that PROduces Feedback via learning from LM simulated student revisions. PROF aims to iteratively optimize the feedback generator by directly maximizing the effectiveness of students{'} overall revising performance as simulated by LMs. Focusing on an economic essay assignment, we empirically test the efficacy of PROF and observe that our approach not only surpasses a variety of baseline methods in effectiveness of improving students{'} writing but also demonstrates enhanced pedagogical values, even though it was not explicitly trained for this aspect."}
{"Title": "Small LLMs Are Weak Tool Learners: A Multi-LLM Agent", "Abstract": "Large Language Model (LLM) agents significantly extend the capabilities of standalone LLMs, empowering them to interact with external tools (e.g., APIs, functions) and complete various tasks in a self-directed fashion. The challenge of tool use demands that LLMs not only understand user queries and generate answers accurately but also excel in task planning, tool invocation, and result summarization. While traditional works focus on training a single LLM with all these capabilities, performance limitations become apparent, particularly with smaller models. To overcome these challenges, we propose a novel approach that decomposes the aforementioned capabilities into a planner, caller, and summarizer. Each component is implemented by a single LLM that focuses on a specific capability and collaborates with others to accomplish the task. This modular framework facilitates individual updates and the potential use of smaller LLMs for building each capability. To effectively train this framework, we introduce a two-stage training paradigm. First, we fine-tune a backbone LLM on the entire dataset without discriminating sub-tasks, providing the model with a comprehensive understanding of the task. Second, the fine-tuned LLM is used to instantiate the planner, caller, and summarizer respectively, which are continually fine-tuned on respective sub-tasks. Evaluation across various tool-use benchmarks illustrates that our proposed multi-LLM framework surpasses the traditional single-LLM approach, highlighting its efficacy and advantages in tool learning."}
{"Title": "Interpreting Context Look-ups in Transformers: Investigating Attention-MLP Interactions", "Abstract": "Understanding the inner workings of large language models (LLMs) is crucial for advancing their theoretical foundations and real-world applications. While the attention mechanism and multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs) have been studied independently, their interactions remain largely unexplored. This study investigates how attention heads and next-token neurons interact in LLMs to predict new words. We propose a methodology to identify next-token neurons, find prompts that highly activate them, and determine the upstream attention heads responsible. We then generate and evaluate explanations for the activity of these attention heads in an automated manner. Our findings reveal that some attention heads recognize specific contexts relevant to predicting a token and activate a downstream token-predicting neuron accordingly. This mechanism provides a deeper understanding of how attention heads work with MLP neurons to perform next-token prediction. Our approach offers a foundation for further research into the intricate workings of LLMs and their impact on text generation and understanding."}
{"Title": "Still Not Quite There! Evaluating Large Language Models for Comorbid Mental Health Diagnosis", "Abstract": "In this study, we introduce ANGST, a novel, first of its kind benchmark for depression-anxiety comorbidity classification from social media posts. Unlike contemporary datasets that often oversimplify the intricate interplay between different mental health disorders by treating them as isolated conditions, ANGST enables multi-label classification, allowing each post to be simultaneously identified as indicating depression and/or anxiety. Comprising 2876 meticulously annotated posts by expert psychologists and an additional 7667 silver-labeled posts, ANGST posits a more representative sample of online mental health discourse. Moreover, we benchmark ANGST using various state-of-the-art language models, ranging from Mental-BERT to GPT-4. Our results provide significant insights into the capabilities and limitations of these models in complex diagnostic scenarios. While GPT-4 generally outperforms other models, none achieve an F1 score exceeding 72{\\%} in multi-class comorbid classification, underscoring the ongoing challenges in applying language models to mental health diagnostics."}
{"Title": "The Odyssey of Commonsense Causality: From Foundational Benchmarks to Cutting-Edge Reasoning", "Abstract": "Understanding commonsense causality is a unique mark of intelligence for humans. It helps people understand the principles of the real world better and benefits the decision-making process related to causation. For instance, commonsense causality is crucial in judging whether a defendant{'}s action causes the plaintiff{'}s loss in determining legal liability. Despite its significance, a systematic exploration of this topic is notably lacking. Our comprehensive survey bridges this gap by focusing on taxonomies, benchmarks, acquisition methods, qualitative reasoning, and quantitative measurements in commonsense causality, synthesizing insights from over 200 representative articles. Our work aims to provide a systematic overview, update scholars on recent advancements, provide a practical guide for beginners, and highlight promising future research directions in this vital field. A summary of the related literature is available at https://github.com/cui-shaobo/causality-papers ."}
{"Title": "Investigating Large Language Models for Complex Word Identification in Multilingual and Multidomain Setups", "Abstract": "Complex Word Identification (CWI) is an essential step in the lexical simplification task and has recently become a task on its own. Some variations of this binary classification task have emerged, such as lexical complexity prediction (LCP) and complexity evaluation of multi-word expressions (MWE). Large language models (LLMs) recently became popular in the Natural Language Processing community because of their versatility and capability to solve unseen tasks in zero/few-shot settings. Our work investigates LLM usage, specifically open-source models such as Llama 2, Llama 3, and Vicuna v1.5, and closed-source, such as ChatGPT-3.5-turbo and GPT-4o, in the CWI, LCP, and MWE settings. We evaluate zero-shot, few-shot, and fine-tuning settings and show that LLMs struggle in certain conditions or achieve comparable results against existing methods. In addition, we provide some views on meta-learning combined with prompt learning. In the end, we conclude that the current state of LLMs cannot or barely outperform existing methods, which are usually much smaller."}
{"Title": "Model Editing Harms General Abilities of Large Language Models: Regularization to the Rescue", "Abstract": "Model editing is a technique that edits the large language models (LLMs) with updated knowledge to alleviate hallucinations without resource-intensive retraining. While current model editing methods can effectively modify a model{'}s behavior within a specific area of interest, they often overlook the potential unintended side effects on the general abilities of LLMs such as reasoning, natural language inference, and question answering. In this paper, we raise concerns that model editing{'}s improvements on factuality may come at the cost of a significant degradation of the model{'}s general abilities. We systematically analyze the side effects by evaluating four popular editing methods on three LLMs across eight representative tasks. Our extensive empirical experiments show that it is challenging for current editing methods to simultaneously improve factuality of LLMs and maintain their general abilities. Our analysis reveals that the side effects are caused by model editing altering the original model weights excessively, leading to overfitting to the edited facts. To mitigate this, a method named RECT is proposed to regularize the edit update weights by imposing constraints on their complexity based on the RElative Change in weighT. Evaluation results show that RECT can significantly mitigate the side effects of editing while still maintaining over 94{\\%} editing performance."}
{"Title": "Are Large Language Models In-Context Personalized Summarizers? Get an iCOPERNICUS Test Done!", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "MediTOD: An English Dialogue Dataset for Medical History Taking with Comprehensive Annotations", "Abstract": "Medical task-oriented dialogue systems can assist doctors by collecting patient medical history, aiding in diagnosis, or guiding treatment selection, thereby reducing doctor burnout and expanding access to medical services. However, doctor-patient dialogue datasets are not readily available, primarily due to privacy regulations. Moreover, existing datasets lack comprehensive annotations involving medical slots and their different attributes, such as symptoms and their onset, progression, and severity. These comprehensive annotations are crucial for accurate diagnosis. Finally, most existing datasets are non-English, limiting their utility for the larger research community.In response, we introduce MediTOD, a new dataset of doctor-patient dialogues in English for the medical history-taking task. Collaborating with doctors, we devise a questionnaire-based labeling scheme tailored to the medical domain. Then, medical professionals create the dataset with high-quality comprehensive annotations, capturing medical slots and their attributes. We establish benchmarks in supervised and few-shot settings on MediTOD for natural language understanding, policy learning, and natural language generation subtasks, evaluating models from both TOD and biomedical domains. We make MediTOD publicly available for future research."}
{"Title": "***YesBut***: A High-Quality Annotated Multimodal Dataset for evaluating Satire Comprehension capability of Vision-Language Models", "Abstract": "Understanding satire and humor is a challenging task for even current Vision-Language models. In this paper, we propose the challenging tasks of Satirical Image Detection (detecting whether an image is satirical), Understanding (generating the reason behind the image being satirical), and Completion (given one half of the image, selecting the other half from 2 given options, such that the complete image is satirical) and release a high-quality dataset ***YesBut***, consisting of 2547 images, 1084 satirical and 1463 non-satirical, containing different artistic styles, to evaluate those tasks. Each satirical image in the dataset depicts a normal scenario, along with a conflicting scenario which is funny or ironic. Despite the success of current Vision-Language Models on multimodal tasks such as Visual QA and Image Captioning, our benchmarking experiments show that such models perform poorly on the proposed tasks on the ***YesBut*** Dataset in Zero-Shot Settings w.r.t both automated as well as human evaluation. Additionally, we release a dataset of 119 real, satirical photographs for further research."}
{"Title": "Working Memory Identifies Reasoning Limits in Language Models", "Abstract": "This study explores the inherent limitations of large language models (LLMs) from a scaling perspective, focusing on the upper bounds of their cognitive capabilities. We integrate insights from cognitive science to quantitatively examine how LLMs perform on n-back tasks{---}a benchmark used to assess working memory, which involves temporarily holding and manipulating information. Our findings reveal that despite the increased model size, LLMs still face significant challenges in holding and processing information effectively, especially under complex task conditions. We also assess various prompting strategies, revealing their diverse impacts on LLM performance. The results highlight the struggle of current LLMs to autonomously discover optimal problem-solving patterns without heavily relying on manually corrected prompts. To move beyond these constraints, fundamental improvements in the planning and search of LLMs are essential for them to reason autonomously. Improving these capabilities will reduce the reliance on external corrections and enable LLMs to become more autonomous in their problem-solving processes."}
{"Title": "RAFT: Realistic Attacks to Fool Text Detectors", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have exhibited remarkable fluency across various tasks. However, their unethical applications, such as disseminating disinformation, have become a growing concern. Although recent works have proposed a number of LLM detection methods, their robustness and reliability remain unclear. In this paper, we present RAFT: a grammar error-free black-box attack against existing LLM detectors. In contrast to previous attacks for language models, our method exploits the transferability of LLM embeddings at the word-level while preserving the original text quality. We leverage an auxiliary embedding to greedily select candidate words to perturb against the target detector. Experiments reveal that our attack effectively compromises all detectors in the study across various domains by up to 99{\\%}, and are transferable across source models. Manual human evaluation studies show our attacks are realistic and indistinguishable from original human-written text. We also show that examples generated by RAFT can be used to train adversarially robust detectors. Our work shows that current LLM detectors are not adversarially robust, underscoring the urgent need for more resilient detection mechanisms."}
{"Title": "LLM-Evolve: Evaluation for LLM's Evolving Capability on Benchmarks", "Abstract": "The advancement of large language models (LLMs) has extended their use to dynamic and interactive real-world applications, where models engage continuously with their environment and potentially enhance their performance over time. Most existing LLM benchmarks evaluate LLMs on i.i.d. tasks, overlooking their ability to learn iteratively from past experiences. Our paper bridges this evaluation gap by proposing a novel framework, LLM-Evolve, which extends established benchmarks to sequential problem-solving settings. LLM-Evolve evaluates LLMs over multiple rounds, providing feedback after each round to build a demonstration memory that the models can query in future tasks. We applied LLM-Evolve to the MMLU, GSM8K, and AgentBench benchmarks, testing 8 state-of-the-art open-source and closed-source models. Results show that LLMs can achieve performance improvements of up to 17{\\%} by learning from past interactions, with the quality of retrieval algorithms and feedback significantly influencing this capability. These insights advocate for more understanding and benchmarks for LLMs{'} performance in evolving interactive scenarios."}
{"Title": "FFN-SkipLLM: A Hidden Gem for Autoregressive Decoding with Adaptive Feed Forward Skipping", "Abstract": "Autoregressive Large Language Models (e.g., LLaMa, GPTs) are omnipresent achieving remarkable success in language understanding and generation. However, such impressive capability typically comes with a substantial model size, which presents significant challenges for autoregressive token-by-token generation. To mitigate computation overload incurred during generation, several early-exit and layer-dropping strategies have been proposed. Despite some promising success due to the redundancy across LLMs layers on metrics like Rough-L/BLUE, our careful knowledge-intensive evaluation unveils issues such as generation collapse, hallucination, and noticeable performance drop even at the trivial exit ratio of {\\textasciitilde}10-15{\\%} of layers. We attribute these errors primarily to ineffective handling of the KV cache through state copying during early exit. In this work, we observe the saturation of computationally expensive feed-forward blocks of LLM layers and propose FFN-SkipLLM, which is a novel fine-grained skip strategy for autoregressive LLMs. FFN-SkipLLM leverages an input-adaptive feed-forward skipping approach that can skip {\\textasciitilde}25-30{\\%} of FFN blocks of LLMs with marginal change in performance on knowledge-intensive generation tasks without any requirement to handle the KV cache. Our extensive experiments and ablation studies across benchmarks like MT-Bench, Factoid-QA, and variable-length text summarization illustrate how our simple and easy-to-use method can facilitate faster autoregressive decoding."}
{"Title": "LLM-based Code-Switched Text Generation for Grammatical Error Correction", "Abstract": "With the rise of globalisation, code-switching (CSW) has become a ubiquitous part of multilingual conversation, posing new challenges for natural language processing (NLP), especially in Grammatical Error Correction (GEC). This work explores the complexities of applying GEC systems to CSW texts. Our objectives include evaluating the performance of state-of-the-art GEC systems on an authentic CSW dataset from English as a Second Language (ESL) learners, exploring synthetic data generation as a solution to data scarcity, and developing a model capable of correcting grammatical errors in monolingual and CSW texts. We generated synthetic CSW GEC data, resulting in one of the first substantial datasets for this task, and showed that a model trained on this data is capable of significant improvements over existing systems. This work targets ESL learners, aiming to provide educational technologies that aid in the development of their English grammatical correctness without constraining their natural multilingualism."}
{"Title": "Deciphering the Interplay of Parametric and Non-parametric Memory in Retrieval-augmented Language Models", "Abstract": "Generative language models often struggle with specialized or less-discussed knowledge. A potential solution is found in Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) models which act like retrieving information before generating responses. In this study, we explore how the Atlas approach, a RAG model, decides between what it already knows (parametric) and what it retrieves (non-parametric). We use causal mediation analysis and controlled experiments to examine how internal representations influence information processing. Our findings disentangle the effects of parametric knowledge and the retrieved context. They indicate that in cases where the model can choose between both types of information (parametric and non-parametric), it relies more on the context than the parametric knowledge. Furthermore, the analysis investigates the computations involved in \\textit{how} the model uses the information from the context. We find that multiple mechanisms are active within the model and can be detected with mediation analysis: first, the decision of \\textit{whether the context is relevant}, and second, how the encoder computes output representations to support copying when relevant."}
{"Title": "On Efficient Language and Vision Assistants for Visually-Situated Natural Language Understanding: What Matters in Reading and Reasoning", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in language and vision assistants have showcased impressive capabilities but suffer from a lack of transparency, limiting broader research and reproducibility. While open-source models handle general image tasks effectively, they face challenges with the high computational demands of complex visually-situated text understanding. Such tasks often require increased token inputs and large vision modules to harness high-resolution information. Striking a balance between model size and data importance remains an open question. This study aims to redefine the design of vision-language models by identifying key components and creating efficient models with constrained inference costs. By strategically formulating datasets, optimizing vision modules, and enhancing supervision techniques, we achieve significant improvements in inference throughput while maintaining high performance. Extensive experiments across models ranging from 160M to 13B parameters offer insights into model optimization.We will fully open-source our codebase, models, and datasets at https://github.com/naver-ai/elva."}
{"Title": "Community-Cross-Instruct: Unsupervised Instruction Generation for Aligning Large Language Models to Online Communities", "Abstract": "Social scientists use surveys to probe the opinions and beliefs of populations, but these methods are slow, costly, and prone to biases. Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) enable the creating of computational representations or {``}digital twins{''} of populations that generate human-like responses mimicking the population{'}s language, styles, and attitudes. We introduce Community-Cross-Instruct, an unsupervised framework for aligning LLMs to online communities to elicit their beliefs. Given a corpus of a community{'}s online discussions, Community-Cross-Instruct automatically generates instruction-output pairs by an advanced LLM to (1) finetune a foundational LLM to faithfully represent that community, and (2) evaluate the alignment of the finetuned model to the community. We demonstrate the method{'}s utility in accurately representing political and diet communities on Reddit. Unlike prior methods requiring human-authored instructions, Community-Cross-Instruct generates instructions in a fully unsupervised manner, enhancing scalability and generalization across domains. This work enables cost-effective and automated surveying of diverse online communities."}
{"Title": "Mathador-LM: A Dynamic Benchmark for Mathematical Reasoning on Large Language Models", "Abstract": "We introduce Mathador-LM, a new benchmark for evaluating the mathematical reasoning on large language models (LLMs), combining ruleset interpretation, planning, and problem-solving. This benchmark is inspired by the Mathador game, where the objective is to reach a target number using basic arithmetic operations on a given set of base numbers, following a simple set of rules. We show that, across leading LLMs, we obtain stable average performance while generating benchmark instances dynamically, following a target difficulty level. Thus, our benchmark alleviates concerns about test-set leakage into training data, an issue that often undermines popular benchmarks. Additionally, we conduct a comprehensive evaluation of both open and closed-source state-of-the-art LLMs on Mathador-LM. Our findings reveal that contemporary models struggle with Mathador-LM, scoring significantly lower than average 3rd graders. This stands in stark contrast to their strong performance on popular mathematical reasoning benchmarks. The implementation of Mathador-LM benchmark is available at https://github.com/IST-DASLab/Mathador-LM."}
{"Title": "Reasoning Paths with Reference Objects Elicit Quantitative Spatial Reasoning in Large Vision-Language Models", "Abstract": "Despite recent advances demonstrating vision- language models{'} (VLMs) abilities to describe complex relationships among objects in images using natural language, their capability to quantitatively reason about object sizes and distances remains underexplored. In this work, we introduce a manually annotated benchmark of 241 questions across five categories specifically designed for quantitative spatial reasoning, and systematically investigate the performance of SoTA VLMs on this task. Our analysis reveals that questions involving reasoning about distances between objects are particularly challenging for SoTA VLMs; however, some VLMs perform significantly better at this task than others, with an almost 40 points gap between the two best performing models. We also make the surprising observation that the success rate of the top-performing VLM increases by 19 points when a reasoning path using a reference object emerges naturally in the response. Inspired by this observation, we develop a zero-shot prompting technique, SpatialPrompt, that encourages VLMs to answer quantitative spatial questions using references objects as visual cues. Specifically, we demonstrate that instruct- ing VLMs to use reference objects in their reasoning paths significantly improves their quantitative spatial reasoning performance, bypassing the need for external data, architectural modifications, or fine-tuning. Remarkably, by solely using SpatialPrompt, Gemini 1.5 Pro, GPT-4V, and GPT-4o improve by 56.2, 28.5, and 6.7 points on average in Q-Spatial Bench without the need for more data, model architectural modifications, or fine-tuning."}
{"Title": "One Thousand and One Pairs: A \u201cnovel\u201d challenge for long-context language models", "Abstract": "Synthetic long-context LLM benchmarks (e.g., {``}needle-in-the-haystack{''}) test only surface-level retrieval capabilities; but how well can long-context LLMs retrieve, synthesize, and reason over information across book-length inputs? We address this question by creating NoCha, a dataset of 1,001 minimally different pairs of true and false claims about 67 recently-published English fictional books, written by human readers of those books. In contrast to existing long-context benchmarks, our annotators confirm that the largest share of pairs in NoCha require global reasoning over the entire book to verify. Our experiments show that while human readers easily perform this task, it is enormously challenging for all ten long-context LLMs that we evaluate: no open-weight model performs above random chance (despite their strong performance on synthetic benchmarks), while GPT-4o achieves the highest pair accuracy at 55.8{\\%}. Further analysis reveals that (1) on average, models perform much better on pairs that require only sentence-level retrieval vs. global reasoning; (2) model-generated explanations for their decisions are often inaccurate even for correctly-labeled claims; and (3) models perform substantially worse on speculative fiction books that contain extensive world-building. The methodology proposed in NoCha allows for the evolution of the benchmark dataset and the easy analysis of future models."}
{"Title": "Foundational Autoraters: Taming Large Language Models for Better Automatic Evaluation", "Abstract": "As large language models (LLMs) evolve, evaluating their output reliably becomes increasingly difficult due to the high cost of human evaluation. To address this, we introduce FLAMe, a family of Foundational Large Autorater Models. FLAMe is trained on a diverse set of over 100 quality assessment tasks, incorporating 5M+ human judgments curated from publicly released human evaluations. FLAMe outperforms models like GPT-4 and Claude-3 on various held-out tasks, and serves as a powerful starting point for fine-tuning, as shown in our reward model evaluation case study (FLAMe-RM). On Reward-Bench, FLAMe-RM-24B achieves 87.8{\\%} accuracy, surpassing GPT-4-0125 (85.9{\\%}) and GPT-4o (84.7{\\%}). Additionally, we introduce FLAMe-Opt-RM, an efficient tail-patch fine-tuning approach that offers competitive RewardBench performance using 25{\\mbox{$\\times$}}fewer training datapoints. Our FLAMe variants outperform popular proprietary LLM-as-a-Judge models on 8 of 12 autorater benchmarks, covering 53 quality assessment tasks, including RewardBench and LLM-AggreFact. Finally, our analysis shows that FLAMe is significantly less biased than other LLM-as-a-Judge models on the CoBBLEr autorater bias benchmark."}
{"Title": "Do LLMs learn a true syntactic universal?", "Abstract": "Do large multilingual language models learn language universals? We consider a candidate universal much-discussed in the linguistics literature, the Final-over-Final Condition (Sheehan et al., 2017b). This Condition is syntactic in the sense that it can only be stated by reference to abstract sentence properties such as nested phrases and head direction. A study of typologically diverse {``}mixed head direction{''} languages confirms that the Condition holds in corpora. But in a targeted syntactic evaluation, Gemini Pro only seems to respect the Condition in German, Russian, Hungarian and Serbian. These relatively high-resource languages contrast with Basque, where Gemini Pro does not seem to have learned the Condition at all. This result suggests that modern language models may need additional sources of bias in order to become truly human-like, within a developmentally-realistic budget of training data."}
{"Title": "GDPO: Learning to Directly Align Language Models with Diversity Using GFlowNets", "Abstract": "A critical component of the current generation of language models is preference alignment, which aims to precisely control the model{'}s behavior to meet human needs and values. The most notable among such methods is Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) and its offline variant Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), both of which seek to maximize a reward model based on human preferences. In particular, DPO derives reward signals directly from the offline preference data, but in doing so overfits the reward signals and generates suboptimal responses that may contain human biases in the dataset. In this work, we propose a practical application of a diversity-seeking RL algorithm called GFlowNet-DPO (GDPO) in an offline preference alignment setting to curtail such challenges. Empirical results show GDPO can generate far more diverse responses than the baseline methods that are still relatively aligned with human values in dialog generation and summarization tasks."}
{"Title": "How Susceptible are Large Language Models to Ideological Manipulation?", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) possess the potential to exert substantial influence on public perceptions and interactions with information. This raises concerns about the societal impact that could arise if the ideologies within these models can be easily manipulated. In this work, we investigate how effectively LLMs can learn and generalize ideological biases from their instruction-tuning data. Our findings reveal a concerning vulnerability: exposure to only a small amount of ideologically driven samples significantly alters the ideology of LLMs. Notably, LLMs demonstrate a startling ability to absorb ideology from one topic and generalize it to even unrelated ones. The ease with which LLMs{'} ideologies can be skewed underscores the risks associated with intentionally poisoned training data by malicious actors or inadvertently introduced biases by data annotators. It also emphasizes the imperative for robust safeguards to mitigate the influence of ideological manipulations on LLMs."}
{"Title": "Measuring Psychological Depth in Language Models", "Abstract": "Evaluations of creative stories generated by large language models (LLMs) often focus on objective properties of the text, such as its style, coherence, and diversity. While these metrics are indispensable, they do not speak to a story{'}s subjective, psychological impact from a reader{'}s perspective. We introduce the Psychological Depth Scale (PDS), a novel framework rooted in literary theory that measures an LLM{'}s ability to produce authentic and narratively complex stories that provoke emotion, empathy, and engagement. We empirically validate our framework by showing that humans can consistently evaluate stories based on PDS (0.72 Krippendorff{'}s alpha). We also explore techniques for automating the PDS to easily scale future analyses. GPT-4o, combined with a novel Mixture-of-Personas (MoP) prompting strategy, achieves an average Spearman correlation of 0.51 with human judgment while Llama-3-70B with constrained decoding scores as high as 0.68 for empathy. Finally, we compared the depth of stories authored by both humans and LLMs. Surprisingly, GPT-4 stories either surpassed or were statistically indistinguishable from highly-rated human-written stories sourced from Reddit. By shifting the focus from text to reader, the Psychological Depth Scale is a validated, automated, and systematic means of measuring the capacity of LLMs to connect with humans through the stories they tell."}
{"Title": "Media Attitude Detection via Framing Analysis with Events and their Relations", "Abstract": "Framing is used to present some selective aspects of an issue and making them more salient, which aims to promote certain values, interpretations, or solutions (Entman, 1993). This study investigates the nuances of media framing on public perception and understanding by examining how events are presented within news articles. Unlike previous research that primarily focused on word choice as a framing device, this work explores the comprehensive narrative construction through events and their relations. Our method integrates event extraction, cross-document event coreference, and causal relationship mapping among events to extract framing devices employed by media to assess their role in framing the narrative. We evaluate our approach with a media attitude detection task and show that the use of event mentions, event cluster descriptors, and their causal relations effectively captures the subtle nuances of framing, thereby providing deeper insights into the attitudes conveyed by news articles. The experimental results show the framing device models surpass the baseline models and offers a more detailed and explainable analysis of media framing effects. We make the source code and dataset publicly available."}
{"Title": "Fill In The Gaps: Model Calibration and Generalization with Synthetic Data", "Abstract": "As machine learning models continue to swiftly advance, calibrating their performance has become a major concern prior to practical and widespread implementation. Most existing calibration methods often negatively impact model accuracy due to the lack of diversity of validation data, resulting in reduced generalizability. To address this, we propose a calibration method that incorporates synthetic data without compromising accuracy. We derive the expected calibration error (ECE) bound using the Probably Approximately Correct (PAC) learning framework. Large language models (LLMs), known for their ability to mimic real data and generate text with mixed class labels, are utilized as a synthetic data generation strategy to lower the ECE bound and improve model accuracy on real test data. Additionally, we propose data generation mechanisms for efficient calibration. Testing our method on four different natural language processing tasks, we observed an average up to 34{\\%} increase in accuracy and 33{\\%} decrease in ECE."}
{"Title": "Adaptive Question Answering: Enhancing Language Model Proficiency for Addressing Knowledge Conflicts with Source Citations", "Abstract": "Resolving knowledge conflicts is a crucial challenge in Question Answering (QA) tasks, as the internet contains numerous conflicting facts and opinions. While some research has made progress in tackling ambiguous settings where multiple valid answers exist, these approaches often neglect to provide source citations, leaving users to evaluate the factuality of each answer. On the other hand, existing work on citation generation has focused on unambiguous settings with single answers, failing to address the complexity of real-world scenarios. Despite the importance of both aspects, no prior research has combined them, leaving a significant gap in the development of QA systems. In this work, we bridge this gap by proposing the novel task of QA with source citation in ambiguous settings, where multiple valid answers exist. To facilitate research in this area, we create a comprehensive framework consisting of: (1) five novel datasets, obtained by augmenting three existing reading comprehension datasets with citation meta-data across various ambiguous settings, such as distractors and paraphrasing; (2) the first ambiguous multi-hop QA dataset featuring real-world, naturally occurring contexts; (3) two new metrics to evaluate models{'} performances; and (4) several strong baselines using rule-based, prompting, and finetuning approaches over five large language models. We hope that this new task, datasets, metrics, and baselines will inspire the community to push the boundaries of QA research and develop more trustworthy and interpretable systems."}
{"Title": "Granular Privacy Control for Geolocation with Vision Language Models", "Abstract": "Vision Language Models (VLMs) are rapidly advancing in their capability to answer information-seeking questions. As these models are widely deployed in consumer applications, they could lead to new privacy risks due to emergent abilities to identify people in photos, geolocate images, etc. As we demonstrate, somewhat surprisingly, current open-source and proprietary VLMs are very capable image geolocators, making widespread geolocation with VLMs an immediate privacy risk, rather than merely a theoretical future concern. As a first step to address this challenge, we develop a new benchmark, GPTGeoChat, to test the capability of VLMs to moderate geolocation dialogues with users. We collect a set of 1,000 image geolocation conversations between in-house annotators and GPT-4v, which are annotated with the granularity of location information revealed at each turn. Using this new dataset we evaluate the ability of various VLMs to moderate GPT-4v geolocation conversations by determining when too much location information has been revealed. We find that custom fine-tuned models perform on par with prompted API-based models when identifying leaked location information at the country or city level, however fine-tuning on supervised data appears to be needed to accurately moderate finer granularities, such as the name of a restaurant or building."}
{"Title": "MedReadMe: A Systematic Study for Fine-grained Sentence Readability in Medical Domain", "Abstract": "Medical texts are notoriously challenging to read. Properly measuring their readability is the first step towards making them more accessible. Here, we present the first systematic study on fine-grained readability measurements in the medical domain, at both sentence-level and span-level. We first introduce a new dataset MedReadMe, which consists of manually annotated readability ratings and fine-grained complex span annotation for 4,520 sentences, featuring two novel {``}Google-Easy{''} and {``}Google-Hard{''} categories. It supports our quantitative analysis, which covers 650 linguistic features and additional complex span features, to answer {``}why medical sentences are so hard.{''} Enabled by our high-quality annotation, we benchmark several state-of-the-art sentence-level readability metrics, including unsupervised, supervised, and prompting-based methods using recently developed large language models (LLMs). Informed by our fine-grained complex span annotation, we find that adding a single feature, capturing the number of jargon spans, into existing readability formulas can significantly improve their correlation with human judgments, and also make them more stable. We will publicly release data and code."}
{"Title": "MemeCLIP: Leveraging CLIP Representations for Multimodal Meme Classification", "Abstract": "The complexity of text-embedded images presents a formidable challenge in machine learning given the need for multimodal understanding of multiple aspects of expression conveyed by them. While previous research in multimodal analysis has primarily focused on singular aspects such as hate speech and its subclasses, this study expands this focus to encompass multiple aspects of linguistics: hate, targets of hate, stance, and humor. We introduce a novel dataset PrideMM comprising 5,063 text-embedded images associated with the LGBTQ+ Pride movement, thereby addressing a serious gap in existing resources. We conduct extensive experimentation on PrideMM by using unimodal and multimodal baseline methods to establish benchmarks for each task. Additionally, we propose a novel framework MemeCLIP for efficient downstream learning while preserving the knowledge of the pre-trained CLIP model. The results of our experiments show that MemeCLIP achieves superior performance compared to previously proposed frameworks on two real-world datasets. We further compare the performance of MemeCLIP and zero-shot GPT-4 on the hate classification task. Finally, we discuss the shortcomings of our model by qualitatively analyzing misclassified samples. Our code and dataset are publicly available at: https://github.com/SiddhantBikram/MemeCLIP."}
{"Title": "FlipGuard: Defending Preference Alignment against Update Regression with Constrained Optimization", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "StorySparkQA: Expert-Annotated QA Pairs with Real-World Knowledge for Children's Story-Based Learning", "Abstract": "Interactive story reading is common in early childhood education, where teachers expect to teach both language skills and real-world knowledge beyond the story. While many story reading systems have been developed for this activity, they often fail to infuse real-world knowledge into the conversation. This limitation can be attributed to the existing question-answering (QA) datasets used for children{'}s education, upon which the systems are built, failing to capture the nuances of how education experts think when conducting interactive story reading activities. To bridge this gap, we design an annotation framework, empowered by existing knowledge graph to capture experts{'} annotations and thinking process, and leverage this framework to construct StorySparkQA dataset, which comprises 5, 868 expert-annotated QA pairs with real-world knowledge. We conduct automated and human expert evaluations across various QA pair generation settings to demonstrate that our StorySparkQA can effectively support models in generating QA pairs that target real-world knowledge beyond story content. StorySparkQA is available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/NEU-HAI/StorySparkQA."}
{"Title": "MedCoT: Medical Chain of Thought via Hierarchical Expert", "Abstract": "Artificial intelligence has advanced in Medical Visual Question Answering (Med-VQA), but prevalent research tends to focus on the accuracy of the answers, often overlooking the reasoning paths and interpretability, which are crucial in clinical settings. Besides, current Med-VQA algorithms, typically reliant on singular models, lack the robustness needed for real-world medical diagnostics which usually require collaborative expert evaluation. To address these shortcomings, this paper presents MedCoT, a novel hierarchical expert verification reasoning chain method designed to enhance interpretability and accuracy in biomedical imaging inquiries. MedCoT is predicated on two principles: The necessity for explicit reasoning paths in Med-VQA and the requirement for multi-expert review to formulate accurate conclusions. The methodology involves an Initial Specialist proposing diagnostic rationales, followed by a Follow-up Specialist who validates these rationales, and finally, a consensus is reached through a vote among a sparse Mixture of Experts within the locally deployed Diagnostic Specialist, which then provides the definitive diagnosis. Experimental evaluations on four standard Med-VQA datasets demonstrate that MedCoT surpasses existing state-of-the-art approaches, providing significant improvements in performance and interpretability."}
{"Title": "Varying Sentence Representations via Condition-Specified Routers", "Abstract": "Semantic similarity between two sentences is inherently subjective and can vary significantly based on the specific aspects emphasized. Consequently, traditional sentence encoders must be capable of generating conditioned sentence representations that account for diverse conditions or aspects. In this paper, we propose a novel yet efficient framework based on transformer-style language models that facilitates advanced conditioned sentence representation while maintaining model parameters and computational efficiency. Empirical evaluations on the Conditional Semantic Textual Similarity and Knowledge Graph Completion tasks demonstrate the superiority of our proposed framework."}
{"Title": "Inductive-Deductive Strategy Reuse for Multi-Turn Instructional Dialogues", "Abstract": "Aligning large language models (LLMs) with human expectations requires high-quality instructional dialogues, which can be achieved by raising diverse, in-depth, and insightful instructions that deepen interactions. Existing methods target instructions from real instruction dialogues as a learning goal and fine-tune a user simulator for posing instructions. However, the user simulator struggles to implicitly model complex dialogue flows and pose high-quality instructions. In this paper, we take inspiration from the cognitive abilities inherent in human learning and propose the explicit modeling of complex dialogue flows through instructional strategy reuse. Specifically, we first induce high-level strategies from various real instruction dialogues. These strategies are applied to new dialogue scenarios deductively, where the instructional strategies facilitate high-quality instructions. Experimental results show that our method can generate diverse, in-depth, and insightful instructions for a given dialogue history. The constructed multi-turn instructional dialogues can outperform competitive baselines on the downstream chat model."}
{"Title": "Information Flow Routes: Automatically Interpreting Language Models at Scale", "Abstract": "Information flows by routes inside the network via mechanisms implemented in the model. These routes can be represented as graphs where nodes correspond to token representations and edges to computations. We automatically build these graphs in a top-down manner, for each prediction leaving only the most important nodes and edges. In contrast to the existing workflows relying on activation patching, we do this through attribution: this allows us to efficiently uncover existing circuits with just a single forward pass. Unlike with patching, we do not need a human to carefully design prediction templates, and we can extract information flow routes for any prediction (not just the ones among the allowed templates). As a result, we can analyze model behavior in general, for specific types of predictions, or different domains. We experiment with Llama 2 and show that some attention head roles are overall important, e.g. previous token heads and subword merging heads. Next, we find similarities in Llama 2 behavior when handling tokens of the same part of speech. Finally, we show that some model components can be specialized on domains such as coding or multilingual texts."}
{"Title": "A Simple yet Effective Training-free Prompt-free Approach to Chinese Spelling Correction Based on Large Language Models", "Abstract": "This work proposes a simple training-free prompt-free approach to leverage large language models (LLMs) for the Chinese spelling correction (CSC) task, which is totally different from all previous CSC approaches. The key idea is to use an LLM as a pure language model in a conventional manner. The LLM goes through the input sentence from the beginning, and at each inference step, produces a distribution over its vocabulary for deciding the next token, given a partial sentence. To ensure that the output sentence remains faithful to the input sentence, we design a minimal distortion model that utilizes pronunciation or shape similarities between the original and replaced characters. Furthermore, we propose two useful reward strategies to address practical challenges specific to the CSC task. Experiments on five public datasets demonstrate that our approach significantly improves LLM performance, enabling them to compete with state-of-the-art domain-general CSC models."}
{"Title": "Representational Analysis of Binding in Language Models", "Abstract": "Entity tracking is essential for complex reasoning. To perform in-context entity tracking, language models (LMs) must bind an entity to its attribute (e.g., bind a container to its content) to recall attribute for a given entity. For example, given a context mentioning {``}The coffee is in Box Z, the stone is in Box M, the map is in Box H{''}, to infer {``}Box Z contains the coffee{''} later, LMs must bind {``}Box Z{''} to {``}coffee{''}. To explain the binding behaviour of LMs, existing research introduces a Binding ID mechanism and states that LMs use a abstract concept called Binding ID (BI) to internally mark entity-attribute pairs. However, they have not directly captured the BI information from entity activations. In this work, we provide a novel view of the Binding ID mechanism by localizing the BI information. Specifically, we discover that there exists a low-rank subspace in the hidden state (or activation) of LMs, that primarily encodes BIs. To identify this subspace, we take principle component analysis as our first attempt and it is empirically proven to be effective. Moreover, we also discover that when editing representations along directions in the subspace, LMs tend to bind a given entity to other attributes accordingly. For example, by patching activations along the BI encoding direction we can make the LM to infer {``}Box Z contains the stone{''} and {``}Box Z contains the map{''}."}
{"Title": "CoSafe: Evaluating Large Language Model Safety in Multi-Turn Dialogue Coreference", "Abstract": "As large language models (LLMs) constantly evolve, ensuring their safety remains a critical research issue. Previous red teaming approaches for LLM safety have primarily focused on single prompt attacks or goal hijacking. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to study LLM safety in multi-turn dialogue coreference. We created a dataset of 1,400 questions across 14 categories, each featuring multi-turn coreference safety attacks. We then conducted detailed evaluations on five widely used open-source LLMs. The results indicated that under multi-turn coreference safety attacks, the highest attack success rate was 56{\\%} with the LLaMA2-Chat-7b model, while the lowest was 13.9{\\%} with the Mistral-7B-Instruct model. These findings highlight the safety vulnerabilities in LLMs during dialogue coreference interactions."}
{"Title": "ClimRetrieve: A Benchmarking Dataset for Information Retrieval from Corporate Climate Disclosures", "Abstract": "To handle the vast amounts of qualitative data produced in corporate climate communication, stakeholders increasingly rely on Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) systems. However, a significant gap remains in evaluating domain-specific information retrieval {--} the basis for answer generation. To address this challenge, this work simulates the typical tasks of a sustainability analyst by examining 30 sustainability reports with 16 detailed climate-related questions. As a result, we obtain a dataset with over 8.5K unique question-source-answer pairs labeled by different levels of relevance. Furthermore, we develop a use case with the dataset to investigate the integration of expert knowledge into information retrieval with embeddings. Although we show that incorporating expert knowledge works, we also outline the critical limitations of embeddings in knowledge-intensive downstream domains like climate change communication."}
{"Title": "Context-Aware Adapter Tuning for Few-Shot Relation Learning in Knowledge Graphs", "Abstract": "Knowledge graphs (KGs) are instrumental in various real-world applications, yet they often suffer from incompleteness due to missing relations. To predict instances for novel relations with limited training examples, few-shot relation learning approaches have emerged, utilizing techniques such as meta-learning. However, the assumption is that novel relations in meta-testing and base relations in meta-training are independently and identically distributed, which may not hold in practice. To address the limitation, we propose RelAdapter, a context-aware adapter for few-shot relation learning in KGs designed to enhance the adaptation process in meta-learning. First, RelAdapter is equipped with a lightweight adapter module that facilitates relation-specific, tunable adaptation of meta-knowledge in a parameter-efficient manner. Second, RelAdapter is enriched with contextual information about the target relation, enabling enhanced adaptation to each distinct relation. Extensive experiments on three benchmark KGs validate the superiority of RelAdapter over state-of-the-art methods."}
{"Title": "Zero-Shot Detection of LLM-Generated Text using Token Cohesiveness", "Abstract": "The increasing capability and widespread usage of large language models (LLMs) highlight the desirability of automatic detection of LLM-generated text. Zero-shot detectors, due to their training-free nature, have received considerable attention and notable success. In this paper, we identify a new feature, token cohesiveness, that is useful for zero-shot detection, and we demonstrate that LLM-generated text tends to exhibit higher token cohesiveness than human-written text. Based on this observation, we devise TOCSIN, a generic dual-channel detection paradigm that uses token cohesiveness as a plug-and-play module to improve existing zero-shot detectors. To calculate token cohesiveness, TOCSIN only requires a few rounds of random token deletion and semantic difference measurement, making it particularly suitable for a practical black-box setting where the source model used for generation is not accessible. Extensive experiments with four state-of-the-art base detectors on various datasets, source models, and evaluation settings demonstrate the effectiveness and generality of the proposed approach. Code available at: https://github.com/Shixuan-Ma/TOCSIN."}
{"Title": "Dual-oriented Disentangled Network with Counterfactual Intervention for Multimodal Intent Detection", "Abstract": "Multimodal intent detection is designed to leverage diverse modalities for a comprehensive understanding of user intentions in real-world scenarios, thus playing a critical role in modern task-oriented dialogue systems. Existing methods have made great progress in modal alignment and fusion, however, two vital limitations are neglected: (I) close entanglement of multimodal semantics with modal structures; (II) insufficient learning of the causal effects of semantic and modality-specific information on the final predictions under the end-to-end training fashion. To alleviate the above limitations, we introduce the Dual-oriented Disentangled Network with Counterfactual Intervention (DuoDN). DuoDN addresses key limitations in current systems by effectively disentangling and utilizing modality-specific and multimodal semantic information. The model consists of a Dual-oriented Disentangled Encoder that decouples semantics-oriented and modality-oriented representations, alongside a Counterfactual Intervention Module that applies causal inference to understand causal effects by injecting confounders. Experiments on three benchmark datasets demonstrate DuoDN{'}s superiority over existing methods, with extensive analysis validating its advantages."}
{"Title": "From LLMs to MLLMs: Exploring the Landscape of Multimodal Jailbreaking", "Abstract": "The rapid development of Large Language Models (LLMs) and Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) has exposed vulnerabilities to various adversarial attacks. This paper provides a comprehensive overview of jailbreaking research targeting both LLMs and MLLMs, highlighting recent advancements in evaluation benchmarks, attack techniques and defense strategies. Compared to the more advanced state of unimodal jailbreaking, multimodal domain remains underexplored. We summarize the limitations and potential research directions of multimodal jailbreaking, aiming to inspire future research and further enhance the robustness and security of MLLMs."}
{"Title": "Symbolic Working Memory Enhances Language Models for Complex Rule Application", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable reasoning performance but struggle with multi-step deductive reasoning involving a series of rule application steps, especially when rules are presented non-sequentially. Our preliminary analysis shows that while LLMs excel in single-step rule application, their performance drops significantly in multi-step scenarios due to the challenge in rule grounding. It requires anchoring the applicable rule and supporting facts at each step, amidst multiple input rules, facts, and inferred facts. To address this, we propose augmenting LLMs with external working memory and introduce a neurosymbolic framework for rule application. The memory stores facts and rules in both natural language and symbolic forms, enabling precise tracking. Utilizing this memory, our framework iteratively performs symbolic rule grounding and LLM-based rule implementation. The former matches predicates and variables of symbolic rules and facts to ground applicable rules at each step. Experiments indicate our framework{'}s effectiveness in rule application and its robustness across various steps and settings."}
{"Title": "LLoCO: Learning Long Contexts Offline", "Abstract": "Processing long contexts remains a challenge for large language models (LLMs) due to the quadratic computational and memory overhead of the self-attention mechanism and the substantial KV cache sizes during generation. We propose LLoCO, a novel approach to address this problem by learning contexts offline through context compression and in-domain parameter-efficient finetuning with LoRA. Our method enables an LLM to create a concise representation of the original context and efficiently retrieve relevant information to answer questions accurately. Our approach extends the effective context window of a 4k token LLaMA2-7B model to handle up to 128k tokens. We evaluate our approach on several long-context question-answering datasets, demonstrating that LLoCO significantly outperforms in-context learning while using $30 \\times$ fewer tokens during inference. LLoCO achieves up to $7.62 \\times$ speed-up during inference and $11.52 \\times$ higher throughput during finetuning, substantially reduces the cost of long document question answering. This makes it a promising solution for efficient long context processing."}
{"Title": "Don't Forget Your Reward Values: Language Model Alignment via Value-based Calibration", "Abstract": "While Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) significantly enhances the generation quality of Large Language Models (LLMs), recent studies have raised concerns regarding the complexity and instability associated with the Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) algorithm, proposing a series of order-based alignment methods as viable alternatives. This paper delves into existing order-based methods, unifying them into one framework and examining their inefficiencies in utilizing reward values. Building upon these findings, we propose a new Value-based Calibration (VCB) method to better align LLMs with human preferences. Experimental results demonstrate that VCB surpasses existing alignment methods on AI assistant and summarization datasets, providing impressive generalizability, robustness, and diversity in different settings."}
{"Title": "Mentor-KD: Making Small Language Models Better Multi-step Reasoners", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have displayed remarkable performances across various complex tasks by leveraging Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting. Recently, studies have proposed a Knowledge Distillation (KD) approach, reasoning distillation, which transfers such reasoning ability of LLMs through fine-tuning language models of multi-step rationales generated by LLM teachers. However, they have inadequately considered two challenges regarding insufficient distillation sets from the LLM teacher model, in terms of 1) data quality and 2) soft label provision. In this paper, we propose Mentor-KD, which effectively distills the multi-step reasoning capability of LLMs to smaller LMs while addressing the aforementioned challenges. Specifically, we exploit a mentor, intermediate-sized task-specific fine-tuned model, to augment additional CoT annotations and provide soft labels for the student model during reasoning distillation. We conduct extensive experiments and confirm Mentor-KD{'}s effectiveness across various models and complex reasoning tasks."}
{"Title": "Are Large Language Models Capable of Generating Human-Level Narratives?", "Abstract": "As daily reliance on large language models (LLMs) grows, assessing their generation quality is crucial to understanding how they might impact on our communications. This paper investigates the capability of LLMs in storytelling, focusing on narrative development and plot progression. We introduce a novel computational framework to analyze narratives through three discourse-level aspects: i) story arcs, ii) turning points, and iii) affective dimensions, including arousal and valence. By leveraging expert and automatic annotations, we uncover significant discrepancies between the LLM- and human- written stories. While human-written stories are suspenseful, arousing, and diverse in narrative structures, LLM stories are homogeneously positive and lack tension. Next, we measure narrative reasoning skills as a precursor to generative capacities, concluding that most LLMs fall short of human abilities in discourse understanding. Finally, we show that explicit integration of aforementioned discourse features can enhance storytelling, as is demonstrated by over 40{\\%} improvement in neural storytelling in terms of diversity, suspense, and arousal. Such advances promise to facilitate greater and more natural roles LLMs in human communication."}
{"Title": "MP2D: An Automated Topic Shift Dialogue Generation Framework Leveraging Knowledge Graphs", "Abstract": "Despite advancements in on-topic dialogue systems, effectively managing topic shifts within dialogues remains a persistent challenge, largely attributed to the limited availability of training datasets. To address this issue, we propose Multi-Passage to Dialogue (MP2D), a data generation framework that automatically creates conversational question-answering datasets with natural topic transitions. By leveraging the relationships between entities in a knowledge graph, MP2D maps the flow of topics within a dialogue, effectively mirroring the dynamics of human conversation. It retrieves relevant passages corresponding to the topics and transforms them into dialogues through the passage-to-dialogue method. Through quantitative and qualitative experiments, we demonstrate MP2D{'}s efficacy in generating dialogue with natural topic shifts. Furthermore, this study introduces a novel benchmark for topic shift dialogues, TS-WikiDialog. Utilizing the dataset, we demonstrate that even Large Language Models (LLMs) struggle to handle topic shifts in dialogue effectively, and we showcase the performance improvements of models trained on datasets generated by MP2D across diverse topic shift dialogue tasks."}
{"Title": "Can Large Language Models Enhance Predictions of Disease Progression? Investigating Through Disease Network Link Prediction", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have made significant strides in various tasks, yet their effectiveness in predicting disease progression remains relatively unexplored. To fill this gap, we use LLMs and employ advanced graph prompting and Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) to predict disease comorbidity within disease networks. Specifically, we introduce a disease Comorbidity prediction model using LLM, named ComLLM, which leverages domain knowledge to enhance the prediction performance. Based on the comprehensive experimental results, ComLLM consistently outperforms conventional models, such as Graph Neural Networks, achieving average area under the curve (AUC) improvements of 10.70{\\%} and 6.07{\\%} over the best baseline models in two distinct disease networks. ComLLM is evaluated across multiple settings for disease progression prediction, employing various prompting strategies, including zero-shot, few-shot, Chain-of-Thought, graph prompting and RAG. Our results show that graph prompting and RAG enhance LLM performance in disease progression prediction tasks. ComLLM exhibits superior predictive capabilities and serves as a proof-of-concept for LLM-based systems in disease progression prediction, highlighting its potential for broad applications in healthcare."}
{"Title": "Searching for Best Practices in Retrieval-Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) techniques have proven to be effective in integrating up-to-date information, mitigating hallucinations, and enhancing response quality, particularly in specialized domains. While many RAG approaches have been proposed to enhance large language models through query-dependent retrievals, these approaches still suffer from their complex implementation and prolonged response times. Typically, a RAG workflow involves multiple processing steps, each of which can be executed in various ways. Here, we investigate existing RAG approaches and their potential combinations to identify optimal RAG practices. Through extensive experiments, we suggest several strategies for deploying RAG that balance both performance and efficiency. Moreover, we demonstrate that multimodal retrieval techniques can significantly enhance question-answering capabilities about visual inputs and accelerate the generation of multimodal content using a {``}retrieval as generation{''} strategy."}
{"Title": "Moral Foundations of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Moral foundations theory (MFT) is a psychological assessment tool that decomposes human moral reasoning into five factors, including care/harm, liberty/oppression, and sanctity/degradation (Graham et al., 2009). People vary in the weight they place on these dimensions when making moral decisions, in part due to their cultural upbringing and political ideology. As large language models (LLMs) are trained on datasets collected from the internet, they may reflect the biases that are present in such corpora. This paper uses MFT as a lens to analyze whether popular LLMs have acquired a bias towards a particular set of moral values. We analyze known LLMs and find they exhibit particular moral foundations, and show how these relate to human moral foundations and political affiliations. We also measure the consistency of these biases, or whether they vary strongly depending on the context of how the model is prompted. Finally, we show that we can adversarially select prompts that encourage the moral to exhibit a particular set of moral foundations, and that this can affect the model{'}s behavior on downstream tasks. These findings help illustrate the potential risks and unintended consequences of LLMs assuming a particular moral stance."}
{"Title": "The Zeno's Paradox of `Low-Resource' Languages", "Abstract": "The disparity in the languages commonly studied in Natural Language Processing (NLP) is typically reflected by referring to languages as low vs high-resourced. However, there is limited consensus on what exactly qualifies as a {`}low-resource language.{'} To understand how NLP papers define and study {`}low resource{'} languages, we qualitatively analyzed 150 papers from the ACL Anthology and popular speech-processing conferences that mention the keyword {`}low-resource.{'} Based on our analysis, we show how several interacting axes contribute to {`}low-resourcedness{'} of a language and why that makes it difficult to track progress for each individual language. We hope our work (1) elicits explicit definitions of the terminology when it is used in papers and (2) provides grounding for the different axes to consider when connoting a language as low-resource."}
{"Title": "Knowledge Planning in Large Language Models for Domain-Aligned Counseling Summarization", "Abstract": "In mental health counseling, condensing dialogues into concise and relevant summaries (aka counseling notes) holds pivotal significance. Large Language Models (LLMs) exhibit remarkable capabilities in various generative tasks; however, their adaptation to domain-specific intricacies remains challenging, especially within mental health contexts. Unlike standard LLMs, mental health experts first plan to apply domain knowledge in writing summaries. Our work enhances LLMs{'} ability by introducing a novel planning engine to orchestrate structuring knowledge alignment. To achieve high-order planning, we divide knowledge encapsulation into two major phases: (i) holding dialogue structure and (ii) incorporating domain-specific knowledge. We employ a planning engine on Llama-2, resulting in a novel framework, PIECE. Our proposed system employs knowledge filtering-cum-scaffolding to encapsulate domain knowledge. Additionally, PIECE leverages sheaf convolution learning to enhance its understanding of the dialogue{'}s structural nuances. We compare PIECE with 14 baseline methods and observe a significant improvement across ROUGE and Bleurt scores. Further, expert evaluation and analyses validate the generation quality to be effective, sometimes even surpassing the gold standard. We further benchmark PIECE with other LLMs and report improvement, including Llama-2 (+2.72{\\%}), Mistral (+2.04{\\%}), and Zephyr (+1.59{\\%}), to justify the generalizability of the planning engine."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Post-Hoc Attributions in Long Document Comprehension via Coarse Grained Answer Decomposition", "Abstract": "Accurately attributing answer text to its source document is crucial for developing a reliable question-answering system. However, attribution for long documents remains largely unexplored. Post-hoc attribution systems are designed to map answer text back to the source document, yet the granularity of this mapping has not been addressed. Furthermore, a critical question arises: What exactly should be attributed? This involves identifying the specific information units within an answer that require grounding. In this paper, we propose and investigate a novel approach to the factual decomposition of generated answers for attribution, employing template-based in-context learning. To accomplish this, we utilize the question and integrate negative sampling during few-shot in-context learning for decomposition. This approach enhances the semantic understanding of both abstractive and extractive answers. We examine the impact of answer decomposition by providing a thorough examination of various attribution approaches, ranging from retrieval-based techniques to LLM-based attributors."}
{"Title": "From Descriptive Richness to Bias: Unveiling the Dark Side of Generative Image Caption Enrichment", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have enhanced the capacity of vision-language models to caption visual text. This generative approach to image caption enrichment further makes textual captions more descriptive, improving alignment with the visual context. However, while many studies focus on the benefits of generative caption enrichment (GCE), are there any negative side effects? We compare standard-format captions and recent GCE processes from the perspectives of gender bias and hallucination, showing that enriched captions suffer from increased gender bias and hallucination. Furthermore, models trained on these enriched captions amplify gender bias by an average of 30.9{\\%} and increase hallucination by 59.5{\\%}. This study serves as a caution against the trend of making captions more descriptive."}
{"Title": "Pruning via Merging: Compressing LLMs via Manifold Alignment Based Layer Merging", "Abstract": "While large language models (LLMs) excel in many domains, their complexity and scale challenge deployment in resource-limited environments. Current compression techniques, such as parameter pruning, often fail to effectively utilize the knowledge from pruned parameters. To address these challenges, we propose Manifold-Based Knowledge Alignment and Layer Merging Compression (MKA), a novel approach that uses manifold learning and the Information Bottleneck (IB) measure to merge similar layers, reducing model size while preserving essential performance. We evaluate MKA on multiple benchmark datasets and various LLMs. Our findings show that MKA not only preserves model performance but also achieves substantial compression ratios, outperforming traditional pruning methods. Moreover, when coupled with quantization, MKA delivers even greater compression. Specifically, on the MMLU dataset using the Llama3-8B model, MKA achieves a compression ratio of 43.75{\\%} with a minimal performance decrease of only 2.82{\\%}. The proposed MKA method offers a resource-efficient and performance-preserving model compression technique for LLMs. We make our code available at https://github.com/SempraETY/Pruning-via-Merging"}
{"Title": "Embedded Named Entity Recognition using Probing Classifiers", "Abstract": "Streaming text generation, has become a common way of increasing the responsiveness of language model powered applications such as chat assistants. At the same time, extracting semantic information from generated text is a useful tool for applications such as automated fact checking or retrieval augmented generation. Currently, this requires either separate models during inference, which increases computational cost, or destructive fine-tuning of the language model. Instead, we propose an approach called EMBER which enables streaming named entity recognition in decoder-only language models without fine-tuning them and while incurring minimal additional computational cost at inference time. Specifically, our experiments show that EMBER maintains high token generation rates, with only a negligible decrease in speed of around 1{\\%} compared to a 43.64{\\%} slowdown measured for a baseline. We make our code and data available online, including a toolkit for training, testing, and deploying efficient token classification models optimized for streaming text generation."}
{"Title": "Unleashing the Power of Emojis in Texts via Self-supervised Graph Pre-Training", "Abstract": "Emojis have gained immense popularity on social platforms, serving as a common means to supplement or replace text. However, existing data mining approaches generally either completely ignore or simply treat emojis as ordinary Unicode characters, which may limit the model{'}s ability to grasp the rich semantic information in emojis and the interaction between emojis and texts. Thus, it is necessary to release the emoji{'}s power in social media data mining. To this end, we first construct a heterogeneous graph consisting of three types of nodes, i.e. post, word and emoji nodes to improve the representation of different elements in posts. The edges are also well-defined to model how these three elements interact with each other. To facilitate the sharing of information among post, word and emoji nodes, we propose a graph pre-train framework for text and emoji co-modeling, which contains two graph pre-training tasks: node-level graph contrastive learning and edge-level link reconstruction learning. Extensive experiments on the Xiaohongshu and Twitter datasets with two types of downstream tasks demonstrate that our approach proves significant improvement over previous strong baseline methods."}
{"Title": "Data Contamination Can Cross Language Barriers", "Abstract": "The opacity in developing large language models (LLMs) is raising growing concerns about the potential contamination of public benchmarks in the pre-training data. Existing contamination detection methods are typically based on the text overlap between training and evaluation data, which can be too superficial to reflect deeper forms of contamination. In this paper, we first present a cross-lingual form of contamination that inflates LLMs{'} performance while evading current detection methods, deliberately injected by overfitting LLMs on the translated versions of benchmark test sets. Then, we propose generalization-based approaches to unmask such deeply concealed contamination. Specifically, we examine the LLM{'}s performance change after modifying the original benchmark by replacing the false answer choices with correct ones from other questions. Contaminated models can hardly generalize to such easier situations, where the false choices can be \\textit{not even wrong}, as all choices are correct in their memorization. Experimental results demonstrate that cross-lingual contamination can easily fool existing detection methods, but not ours. In addition, we discuss the potential utilization of cross-lingual contamination in interpreting LLMs{'} working mechanisms and in post-training LLMs for enhanced multilingual capabilities."}
{"Title": "Automated Essay Scoring: A Reflection on the State of the Art", "Abstract": "While steady progress has been made on the task of automated essay scoring (AES) in the past decade, much of the recent work in this area has focused on developing models that beat existing models on a standard evaluation dataset. While improving performance numbers remains an important goal in the short term, such a focus is not necessarily beneficial for the long-term development of the field. We reflect on the state of the art in AES research, discussing issues that we believe can encourage researchers to think bigger than improving performance numbers with the ultimate goal of triggering discussion among AES researchers on how we should move forward."}
{"Title": "Encouraging Divergent Thinking in Large Language Models through Multi-Agent Debate", "Abstract": "Modern large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT have shown remarkable performance on general language tasks but still struggle on complex reasoning tasks, which drives the research on cognitive behaviors of LLMs to explore human-like problem-solving strategies. Along this direction, one representative strategy is self-reflection, which asks an LLM to refine the solution with the feedback generated by itself iteratively. However, our study shows that such reflection-style methods suffer from the Degeneration-of-Thought (DoT) problem: once the LLM has established confidence in its solutions, it is unable to generate novel thoughts later through reflection even if its initial stance is incorrect. To address the DoT problem, we propose a Multi-Agent Debate (MAD) framework, in which multiple agents express their arguments in the state of {``}tit for tat{''} and a judge manages the debate process to obtain a final solution. Clearly, our MAD framework encourages divergent thinking in LLMs which would be helpful for tasks that require deep levels of contemplation. Experiment results on two challenging datasets, commonsense machine translation and counter-intuitive arithmetic reasoning, demonstrate the effectiveness of our MAD framework. Extensive analyses suggest that the adaptive break of debate and the modest level of {``}tit for tat{''} state are required for MAD to obtain good performance. Moreover, we find that LLMs might not be a fair judge if different LLMs are used for agents."}
{"Title": "Unveiling and Consulting Core Experts in Retrieval-Augmented MoE-based LLMs", "Abstract": "Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) significantly improved the ability of Large Language Models (LLMs) to solve knowledge-intensive tasks. While existing research seeks to enhance RAG performance by retrieving higher-quality documents or designing RAG-specific LLMs, the internal mechanisms within LLMs that contribute to RAG{'}s effectiveness remain underexplored. In this paper, we aim to investigate these internal mechanisms within the popular Mixture-of-Expert (MoE)-based LLMs and demonstrate how to improve RAG by examining expert activations in these LLMs. Our controlled experiments reveal that several core groups of experts are primarily responsible for RAG-related behaviors. The activation of these core experts can signify the model{'}s inclination towards external/internal knowledge and adjust its behavior. For instance, we identify core experts that can (1) indicate the sufficiency of the model{'}s internal knowledge, (2) assess the quality of retrieved documents, and (3) enhance the model{'}s ability to utilize context. Based on these findings, we propose several strategies to enhance RAG{'}s efficiency and effectiveness through expert activation. Experimental results across various datasets and MoE LLMs show the effectiveness of our method."}
{"Title": "CURE: Context- and Uncertainty-Aware Mental Disorder Detection", "Abstract": "As the explainability of mental disorder detection models has become important, symptom-based methods that predict disorders from identified symptoms have been widely utilized. However, since these approaches focused on the presence of symptoms, the context of symptoms can be often ignored, leading to missing important contextual information related to detecting mental disorders. Furthermore, the result of disorder detection can be vulnerable to errors that may occur in identifying symptoms. To address these issues, we propose a novel framework that detects mental disorders by leveraging symptoms and their context while mitigating potential errors in symptom identification. In this way, we propose to use large language models to effectively extract contextual information and introduce an uncertainty-aware decision fusion network that combines predictions of multiple models based on quantified uncertainty values. To evaluate the proposed method, we constructed a new Korean mental health dataset annotated by experts, named KoMOS. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed model accurately detects mental disorders even in situations where symptom information is incomplete."}
{"Title": "PepRec: Progressive Enhancement of Prompting for Recommendation", "Abstract": "With large language models (LLMs) achieving remarkable breakthroughs in natural language processing (NLP) domains, recent researchers have actively explored the potential of LLMs for recommendation systems by converting the input data into textual sentences through prompt templates. Although semantic knowledge from LLMs can help enrich the content information of items, to date it is still hard for them to achieve comparable performance to traditional deep learning recommendation models, partly due to a lack of ability to leverage collaborative filtering. In this paper, we propose a novel training-free prompting framework, PepRec, which aims to capture knowledge from both content-based filtering and collaborative filtering to boost recommendation performance with LLMs, while providing interpretation for the recommendation. Experiments based on two real-world datasets from different domains show that PepRec significantly outperforms various traditional deep learning recommendation models and prompt-based recommendation systems."}
{"Title": "In-Context Compositional Generalization for Large Vision-Language Models", "Abstract": "Recent work has revealed that in-context learning for large language models exhibits compositional generalization capacity, which can be enhanced by selecting in-context demonstrations similar to test cases to provide contextual information. However, how to exhibit in-context compositional generalization (ICCG) of large vision-language models (LVLMs) is non-trival. Due to the inherent asymmetry between visual and linguistic modalities, ICCG in LVLMs faces an inevitable challenge{---}redundant information on the visual modality. The redundant information affects in-context learning from two aspects: (1) Similarity calculation may be dominated by redundant information, resulting in sub-optimal demonstration selection. (2) Redundant information in in-context demonstrations brings misleading contextual information to in-context learning. To alleviate these problems, we propose a demonstration selection method to achieve ICCG for LVLMs, by considering two key factors of demonstrations: content and structure, from a multimodal perspective. Specifically, we design a diversity-coverage-based matching score to select demonstrations with maximum coverage, and avoid selecting demonstrations with redundant information via their content redundancy and structural complexity. We build a GQA-ICCG dataset to simulate the ICCG setting, and conduct experiments on GQA-ICCG and the VQA v2 dataset. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method."}
{"Title": "Improving Zero-shot LLM Re-Ranker with Risk Minimization", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Game on Tree: Visual Hallucination Mitigation via Coarse-to-Fine View Tree and Game Theory", "Abstract": "Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) may produce outputs that are unfaithful to reality, also known as visual hallucinations (VH), which hinders their application in multimodal understanding and decision-making. In this work, we introduce a novel plug-and-play train-free decoding algorithm named Game and Tree based Hallucination Mitigation (GTHM), designed for mitigating VH. GTHM is inspired by empirical observations that the fuzziness of multi-granularity view perception exacerbates VH. Based on this, GTHM leverages visual information to construct a coarse-to-fine visual view tree (CFTree) that organizes visual objects, attributes, and relationships in a hierarchical manner. Additionally, we innovatively model the optimal visual-token matching process on the CFTree as the cooperative game. Specifically, we define the Tree-based Shapley Value (TSV) for each visual view on the CFTree to assess its significant contribution to the overall visual understanding, thereby determining the optimal visual granularity. Subsequently, we utilize the TSV as guidance to implement adaptive weight contrastive decoding to achieve vision-aware decoding. Extensive experiments on four popular benchmarks confirm the effectiveness of our GTHM in alleviating VH across different LVLM families without additional training or post-processing. Our code is published at https://github.com/mengchuang123/GTHM."}
{"Title": "Label Confidence Weighted Learning for Target-level Sentence Simplification", "Abstract": "Multi-level sentence simplification generates simplified sentences with varying language proficiency levels. We propose Label Confidence Weighted Learning (LCWL), a novel approach that incorporates a label confidence weighting scheme in the training loss of the encoder-decoder model, setting it apart from existing confidence-weighting methods primarily designed for classification. Experimentation on English grade-level simplification dataset shows that LCWL outperforms state-of-the-art unsupervised baselines. Fine-tuning the LCWL model on in-domain data and combining with Symmetric Cross Entropy (SCE) consistently delivers better simplifications compared to strong supervised methods. Our results highlight the effectiveness of label confidence weighting techniques for text simplification tasks with encoder-decoder architectures."}
{"Title": "Quantum Recurrent Architectures for Text Classification", "Abstract": "We develop quantum RNNs with cells based on Parametrised Quantum Circuits (PQCs). PQCs can provide a form of hybrid quantum-classical computation where the input and the output is in the form of classical data. The previous {``}hidden{''} state is the quantum state from the previous time-step, and an angle encoding is used to define a (non-linear) mapping from a classical word embedding into the quantum Hilbert space. Measurements of the quantum state provide classical statistics which are used for classification. We report results which are competitive with various RNN baselines on the Rotten Tomatoes dataset, as well as emulator results which demonstrate the feasibility of running such models on quantum hardware."}
{"Title": "Tree of Problems: Improving structured problem solving with compositionality", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable performance across multipletasks through in-context learning. For complex reasoning tasks that require step-by-step thinking, Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting has given impressive results, especially when combined with self-consistency. Nonetheless, some tasks remain particularly difficult for LLMs to solve. Tree of Thoughts (ToT) and Graph of Thoughts (GoT) emerged as alternatives, dividing the complex problem into paths of subproblems. In this paper, we propose Tree of Problems (ToP), a simpler version of ToT, which we hypothesise can work better for complex tasks that can be divided into identical subtasks. Our empirical results show that our approach outperforms ToT and GoT, and in addition per forms better than CoT on complex reasoning tasks. All code for this paper will be made available."}
{"Title": "What the Harm? Quantifying the Tangible Impact of Gender Bias in Machine Translation with a Human-centered Study", "Abstract": "Gender bias in machine translation (MT) is recognized as an issue that can harm people and society. And yet, advancements in the field rarely involve people, the final MT users, or inform how they might be impacted by biased technologies. Current evaluations are often restricted to automatic methods, which offer an opaque estimate of what the downstream impact of gender disparities might be. We conduct an extensive human-centered study to examine if and to what extent bias in MT brings harms with tangible costs, such as quality of service gaps across women and men. To this aim, we collect behavioral data from {\\textasciitilde}90 participants, who post-edited MT outputs to ensure correct gender translation. Across multiple datasets, languages, and types of users, our study shows that feminine post-editing demands significantly more technical and temporal effort, also corresponding to higher financial costs. Existing bias measurements, however, fail to reflect the found disparities. Our findings advocate for human-centered approaches that can inform the societal impact of bias."}
{"Title": "Seg2Act: Global Context-aware Action Generation for Document Logical Structuring", "Abstract": "Document logical structuring aims to extract the underlying hierarchical structure of documents, which is crucial for document intelligence. Traditional approaches often fall short in handling the complexity and the variability of lengthy documents. To address these issues, we introduce Seg2Act, an end-to-end, generation-based method for document logical structuring, revisiting logical structure extraction as an action generation task. Specifically, given the text segments of a document, Seg2Act iteratively generates the action sequence via a global context-aware generative model, and simultaneously updates its global context and current logical structure based on the generated actions. Experiments on ChCatExt and HierDoc datasets demonstrate the superior performance of Seg2Act in both supervised and transfer learning settings."}
{"Title": "Is C4 Dataset Optimal for Pruning? An Investigation of Calibration Data for LLM Pruning", "Abstract": "Network pruning has emerged as a potential solution to make LLMs cheaper to deploy. However, existing LLM pruning approachesuniversally rely on the C4 dataset as the calibration data for calculating pruning scores, leaving its optimality unexplored. In this study, we evaluate the choice of calibration data on LLM pruning, across a wide range of datasets that are most commonly used in LLM training and evaluation, including four pertaining datasets as well as three categories of downstream tasks encompassing nine datasets. Each downstream dataset is prompted with In-Context Learning (ICL) and Chain-of-Thought (CoT), respectively. Besides the already intriguingobservation that the choice of calibration data significantly impacts the performance of pruned LLMs, our results also uncover several subtle and often unexpected findings, summarized as follows: (1) C4 is not the optimal choice for LLM pruning, even among commonly used pre-training datasets; (2) arithmetic datasets{---}when used as calibration data{---}performs on par or even better than pre-training datasets; (3) pruning with downstream datasets does not necessarily help the corresponding downstream task, compared to pre-training data; (4) ICL is widely beneficial to all data categories, whereas CoT is only useful on certain tasks. Our findings shed light on the importance of carefully selecting calibration data for LLM pruning and pave the way for more efficient deployment of these powerfulmodels in real-world applications. We release our code at: https://github.com/abx393/llm-pruning-calibration-data."}
{"Title": "Revisiting the Robustness of Watermarking to Paraphrasing Attacks", "Abstract": "Amidst rising concerns about the internet being proliferated with content generated from language models (LMs), watermarking is seen as a principled way to certify whether text was generated from a model. Many recent watermarking techniques slightly modify the output probabilities of LMs to embed a signal in the generated output that can later be detected. Since early proposals for text watermarking, questions about their robustness to paraphrasing have been prominently discussed. Lately, some techniques are deliberately designed and claimed to be robust to paraphrasing. Particularly, a recent approach trains a model to produce a watermarking signal that is invariant to semantically-similar inputs. However, such watermarking schemes do not adequately account for the ease with which they can be reverse-engineered. We show that with limited access to model generations, we can undo the effects of watermarking and drastically improve the effectiveness of paraphrasing attacks."}
{"Title": "A Survey of Ontology Expansion for Conversational Understanding", "Abstract": "In the rapidly evolving field of conversational AI, Ontology Expansion (OnExp) is crucial for enhancing the adaptability and robustness of conversational agents. Traditional models rely on static, predefined ontologies, limiting their ability to handle new and unforeseen user needs. This survey paper provides a comprehensive review of the state-of-the-art techniques in OnExp for conversational understanding. It categorizes the existing literature into three main areas: (1) New Intent Discovery, (2) New Slot-Value Discovery, and (3) Joint OnExp. By examining the methodologies, benchmarks, and challenges associated with these areas, we highlight several emerging frontiers in OnExp to improve agent performance in real-world scenarios and discuss their corresponding challenges. This survey aspires to be a foundational reference for researchers and practitioners, promoting further exploration and innovation in this crucial domain."}
{"Title": "Calibrating Language Models with Adaptive Temperature Scaling", "Abstract": "The effectiveness of large language models (LLMs) is not only measured by their ability to generate accurate outputs but also by their calibration{---}how well their confidence scores reflect the probability of their outputs being correct. While unsupervised pre-training has been shown to yield LLMs with well-calibrated conditional probabilities, recent studies have shown that after fine-tuning with reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), the calibration of these models degrades significantly. In this work, we introduce Adaptive Temperature Scaling (ATS), a post-hoc calibration method that predicts a temperature scaling parameter for each token prediction. The predicted temperature values adapt based on token-level features and are fit over a standard supervised fine-tuning (SFT) dataset. The adaptive nature of ATS addresses the varying degrees of calibration shift that can occur after RLHF fine-tuning. ATS improves calibration by over 10-50{\\%} across three downstream natural language evaluation benchmarks compared to prior calibration methods and does not impede performance improvements from RLHF."}
{"Title": "Which Programming Language and What Features at Pre-training Stage Affect Downstream Logical Inference Performance?", "Abstract": "Recent large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable generalization abilities in mathematics and logical reasoning tasks.Prior research indicates that LLMs pre-trained with programming language data exhibit high mathematical and reasoning abilities; however, this causal relationship has not been rigorously tested. Our research aims to verify which programming languages and features during pre-training affect logical inference performance. Specifically, we pre-trained decoder-based language models from scratch using datasets from ten programming languages (e.g., Python, C, Java) and three natural language datasets (Wikipedia, Fineweb, C4) under identical conditions. Thereafter, we evaluated the trained models in a few-shot in-context learning setting on logical reasoning tasks: FLD and bAbi, which do not require commonsense or world knowledge. The results demonstrate that nearly all models trained with programming languages consistently outperform those trained with natural languages, indicating that programming languages contain factors that elicit logic inference performance. In addition, we found that models trained with programming languages exhibit a better ability to follow instructions compared to those trained with natural languages. Further analysis reveals that the depth of Abstract Syntax Trees representing parsed results of programs also affects logical reasoning performance. These findings will offer insights into the essential elements of pre-training for acquiring the foundational abilities of LLMs."}
{"Title": "Why do objects have many names? A study on word informativeness in language use and lexical systems", "Abstract": "Human lexicons contain many different words that speakers can use to refer to the same object, e.g., *purple* or *magenta* for the same shade of color. On the one hand, studies on language use have explored how speakers adapt their referring expressions to successfully communicate in context, without focusing on properties of the lexical system. On the other hand, studies in language evolution have discussed how competing pressures for informativeness and simplicity shape lexical systems, without tackling in-context communication. We aim at bridging the gap between these traditions, and explore why a soft mapping between referents and words is a good solution for communication, by taking into account both in-context communication and the structure of the lexicon. We propose a simple measure of informativeness for words and lexical systems, grounded in a visual space, and analyze color naming data for English and Mandarin Chinese. We conclude that optimal lexical systems are those where multiple words can apply to the same referent, conveying different amounts of information. Such systems allow speakers to maximize communication accuracy and minimize the amount of information they convey when communicating about referents in contexts."}
{"Title": "Dual-Space Knowledge Distillation for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Knowledge distillation (KD) is known as a promising solution to compress large language models (LLMs) via transferring their knowledge to smaller models. During this process, white-box KD methods usually minimize the distance between the output distributions of the two models so that more knowledge can be transferred. However, in the current white-box KD framework, the output distributions are from the respective output spaces of the two models, using their own prediction heads. We argue that the space discrepancy will lead to low similarity between the teacher model and the student model on both representation and distribution levels. Furthermore, this discrepancy also hinders the KD process between models with different vocabularies, which is common for current LLMs. To address these issues, we propose a dual-space knowledge distillation (DSKD) framework that unifies the output spaces of the two models for KD. On the basis of DSKD, we further develop a cross-model attention mechanism, which can automatically align the representations of the two models with different vocabularies. Thus, our framework is not only compatible with various distance functions for KD (e.g., KL divergence) like the current framework, but also supports KD between any two LLMs regardless of their vocabularies. Experiments on task-agnostic instruction-following benchmarks show that DSKD significantly outperforms the current white-box KD framework with various distance functions, and also surpasses existing KD methods for LLMs with different vocabularies."}
{"Title": "NoiseBench: Benchmarking the Impact of Real Label Noise on Named Entity Recognition", "Abstract": "Available training data for named entity recognition (NER) often contains a significant percentage of incorrect labels for entity types and entity boundaries. Such label noise poses challenges for supervised learning and may significantly deteriorate model quality. To address this, prior work proposed various noise-robust learning approaches capable of learning from data with partially incorrect labels. These approaches are typically evaluated using simulated noise where the labels in a clean dataset are automatically corrupted. However, as we show in this paper, this leads to unrealistic noise that is far easier to handle than real noise caused by human error or semi-automatic annotation. To enable the study of the impact of various types of real noise, we introduce NoiseBench, an NER benchmark consisting of clean training data corrupted with 6 types of real noise, including expert errors, crowdsourcing errors, automatic annotation errors and LLM errors. We present an analysis that shows that real noise is significantly more challenging than simulated noise, and show that current state-of-the-art models for noise-robust learning fall far short of their achievable upper bound. We release NoiseBench for both English and German to the research community."}
{"Title": "On the Universal Truthfulness Hyperplane Inside LLMs", "Abstract": "While large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable abilities across various fields, hallucination remains a significant challenge. Recent studies have explored hallucinations through the lens of internal representations, proposing mechanisms to decipher LLMs{'} adherence to facts. However, these approaches often fail to generalize to out-of-distribution data, leading to concerns about whether internal representation patterns reflect fundamental factual awareness, or only overfit spurious correlations on the specific datasets. In this work, we investigate whether a universal truthfulness hyperplane that distinguishes the model{'}s factually correct and incorrect outputs exists within the model. To this end, we scale up the number of training datasets and conduct an extensive evaluation {--} we train the truthfulness hyperplane on a diverse collection of over 40 datasets and examine its cross-task, cross-domain, and in-domain generalization. Our results indicate that increasing the diversity of the training datasets significantly enhances the performance in all scenarios, while the volume of data samples plays a less critical role. This finding supports the optimistic hypothesis that a universal truthfulness hyperplane may indeed exist within the model, offering promising directions for future research."}
{"Title": "PairDistill: Pairwise Relevance Distillation for Dense Retrieval", "Abstract": "Effective information retrieval (IR) from vast datasets relies on advanced techniques to extract relevant information in response to queries. Recent advancements in dense retrieval have showcased remarkable efficacy compared to traditional sparse retrieval methods. To further enhance retrieval performance, knowledge distillation techniques, often leveraging robust cross-encoder rerankers, have been extensively explored. However, existing approaches primarily distill knowledge from pointwise rerankers, which assign absolute relevance scores to documents, thus facing challenges related to inconsistent comparisons. This paper introduces Pairwise Relevance Distillation (PairDistill) to leverage pairwise reranking, offering fine-grained distinctions between similarly relevant documents to enrich the training of dense retrieval models. Our experiments demonstrate that PairDistill outperforms existing methods, achieving new state-of-the-art results across multiple benchmarks. This highlights the potential of PairDistill in advancing dense retrieval techniques effectively. Our source code and trained models are released at https://github.com/MiuLab/PairDistill"}
{"Title": "User Inference Attacks on Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Text written by humans makes up the vast majority of the data used to pre-train and fine-tune large language models (LLMs). Many sources of this data{---}like code, forum posts, personal websites, and books{---}are easily attributed to one or a few {``}users{''}. In this paper, we ask if it is possible to infer if any of a {\\_}user{'}s{\\_} data was used to train an LLM. Not only would this constitute a breach of privacy, but it would also enable users to detect when their data was used for training. We develop the first effective attacks for {\\_}user inference{\\_}{---}at times, with near-perfect success{---}against LLMs. Our attacks are easy to employ, requiring only black-box access to an LLM and a few samples from the user, which {\\_}need not be the ones that were trained on{\\_}. We find, both theoretically and empirically, that certain properties make users more susceptible to user inference: being an outlier, having highly correlated examples, and contributing a larger fraction of data. Based on these findings, we identify several methods for mitigating user inference including training with example-level differential privacy, removing within-user duplicate examples, and reducing a user{'}s contribution to the training data. Though these provide partial mitigation, our work highlights the need to develop methods to fully protect LLMs from user inference."}
{"Title": "HiFT: A Hierarchical Full Parameter Fine-Tuning Strategy", "Abstract": "Full-parameter fine-tuning (FPFT) has become the go-to choice for adapting language models (LMs) to downstream tasks due to its excellent performance. As LMs grow in size, fine-tuning the full parameters of LMs requires a prohibitively large amount of GPU memory. Existing approaches utilize zeroth-order optimizer to conserve GPU memory, which potentially compromises the performance of LMs as non-zero order optimizers tend to converge more readily on most downstream tasks. We propose a novel, memory-efficient, optimizer-independent, end-to-end hierarchical fine-tuning strategy, HiFT, which only updates a subset of parameters at each training step. HiFT significantly reduces the amount of gradients and optimizer state parameters residing in GPU memory at the same time, thereby reducing GPU memory usage. Our results demonstrate that: (1) HiFT achieves comparable performance with parameter-efficient fine-tuning and standard FPFT. (2) Results on six models show that HiFT reduces the number of trainable parameters by about 89.18{\\%} on average compared to FPFT. (3) HiFT supports FPFT of 7B models for 24G GPU memory devices under mixed precision without using any memory saving techniques. (4) HiFT supports various optimizers including AdamW, AdaGrad, SGD, etc. The source code link is https://github.com/misonsky/HiFT."}
{"Title": "Investigating and Mitigating Object Hallucinations in Pretrained Vision-Language (CLIP) Models", "Abstract": "Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) have achieved impressive performance, yet research has pointed out a serious issue with object hallucinations within these models. However, there is no clear conclusion as to which part of the model these hallucinations originate from. In this paper, we present an in-depth investigation into the object hallucination problem specifically within the CLIP model, which serves as the backbone for many state-of-the-art vision-language systems. We unveil that even in isolation, the CLIP model is prone to object hallucinations, suggesting that the hallucination problem is not solely due to the interaction between vision and language modalities. To address this, we propose a counterfactual data augmentation method by creating negative samples with a variety of hallucination issues. We demonstrate that our method can effectively mitigate object hallucinations for CLIP model, and we show the the enhanced model can be employed as a visual encoder, effectively alleviating the object hallucination issue in LVLMs."}
{"Title": "Simultaneous Masking, Not Prompting Optimization: A Paradigm Shift in Fine-tuning LLMs for Simultaneous Translation", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have achieved state-of-the-art performance in various language processing tasks, motivating their adoption in simultaneous translation. Current fine-tuning methods to adapt LLMs for simultaneous translation focus on prompting optimization strategies using either data augmentation or prompt structure modifications. However, these methods suffer from several issues, such as unnecessarily expanded training sets, computational inefficiency from dumping the key and value cache, increased prompt sizes, or restriction to a single decision policy. To eliminate these issues, in this work, we propose SimulMask, a new paradigm for fine-tuning LLMs for simultaneous translation. It utilizes a novel attention mask approach that models simultaneous translation during fine-tuning by masking attention for a desired decision policy. Applying the proposed SimulMask on a Falcon LLM for the IWSLT 2017 dataset, we have observed a significant translation quality improvement compared to state-of-the-art prompting optimization strategies on five language pairs while reducing the computational cost."}
{"Title": "ToolPlanner: A Tool Augmented LLM for Multi Granularity Instructions with Path Planning and Feedback", "Abstract": "Recently, tool-augmented LLMs have gained increasing attention. Given an instruction, tool-augmented LLMs can interact with various external tools in multiple rounds and provide a final answer. However, previous LLMs were trained on overly detailed instructions, which included API names or parameters, while real users would not explicitly mention these API details. This leads to a gap between trained LLMs and real-world scenarios. In addition, most works ignore whether the interaction process follows the instruction. To address these issues, we constructed a training dataset called MGToolBench, which contains statement and category-level instructions to better reflect real-world scenarios. In addition, we propose ToolPlanner, a two-stage reinforcement learning framework that utilizes path planning and two feedback mechanisms to enhance the LLM{'}s task completion and instruction-following capabilities. Experimental results show that ToolPlanner significantly improves the Match Rate, Pass Rate and Win Rate by 26.8{\\%}, 20.2{\\%}, and 5.6{\\%} compared to the SOTA model. Human evaluation verifies that the multi-granularity instructions can better align with users{'} usage habits. Our data and code will be released upon acceptance."}
{"Title": "Please note that I'm just an AI: Analysis of Behavior Patterns of LLMs in (Non-)offensive Speech Identification", "Abstract": "Offensive speech is highly prevalent on online platforms. Being trained on online data, Large Language Models (LLMs) display undesirable behaviors, such as generating harmful text or failing to recognize it. Despite these shortcomings, the models are becoming a part of our everyday lives by being used as tools for information search, content creation, writing assistance, and many more. Furthermore, the research explores using LLMs in applications with immense social risk, such as late-life companions and online content moderators. Despite the potential harms from LLMs in such applications, whether LLMs can reliably identify offensive speech and how they behave when they fail are open questions. This work addresses these questions by probing sixteen widely used LLMs and showing that most fail to identify (non-)offensive online language. Our experiments reveal undesirable behavior patterns in the context of offensive speech detection, such as erroneous response generation, over-reliance on profanity, and failure to recognize stereotypes. Our work highlights the need for extensive documentation of model reliability, particularly in terms of the ability to detect offensive language."}
{"Title": "How to Compute the Probability of a Word", "Abstract": "Language models (LMs) estimate a probability distribution over strings in a natural language; these distributions are crucial for computing perplexity and surprisal in linguistics research. While we are usually concerned with measuring these values for words, most LMs operate over subwords. Despite seemingly straightforward, accurately computing probabilities over one unit given probabilities over the other requires care. Indeed, we show here that many recent linguistic studies have been incorrectly computing these values. This paper derives the correct methods for computing word probabilities, highlighting issues when relying on language models that use beginning-of-word (bow)-marking tokenisers, e.g., the GPT family. Empirically, we show that correcting the widespread bug in probability computations affects measured outcomes in sentence comprehension and lexical optimisation analyses."}
{"Title": "A linguistically-motivated evaluation methodology for unraveling model's abilities in reading comprehension tasks", "Abstract": "We introduce an evaluation methodology for reading comprehension tasks based on the intuition that certain examples, by the virtue of their linguistic complexity, consistently yield lower scores regardless of model size or architecture. We capitalize on semantic frame annotation for characterizing this complexity, and study seven complexity factors that may account for model{'}s difficulty. We first deploy this methodology on a carefully annotated French reading comprehension benchmark showing that two of those complexity factors are indeed good predictors of models{'} failure, while others are less so. We further deploy our methodology on a well studied English benchmark by using chatGPT as a proxy for semantic annotation.Our study reveals that fine-grained linguistically-motivated automatic evaluation of a reading comprehension task is not only possible, but helps understand models{'} abilities to handle specific linguistic characteristics of input examples. It also shows that current state-of-the-art models fail with some for those characteristics which suggests that adequately handling them requires more than merely increasing model size."}
{"Title": "GuardBench: A Large-Scale Benchmark for Guardrail Models", "Abstract": "Generative AI systems powered by Large Language Models have become increasingly popular in recent years. Lately, due to the risk of providing users with unsafe information, the adoption of those systems in safety-critical domains has raised significant concerns. To respond to this situation, input-output filters, commonly called guardrail models, have been proposed to complement other measures, such as model alignment. Unfortunately, the lack of a standard benchmark for guardrail models poses significant evaluation issues and makes it hard to compare results across scientific publications. To fill this gap, we introduce GuardBench, a large-scale benchmark for guardrail models comprising 40 safety evaluation datasets. To facilitate the adoption of GuardBench, we release a Python library providing an automated evaluation pipeline built on top of it. With our benchmark, we also share the first large-scale prompt moderation datasets in German, French, Italian, and Spanish. To assess the current state-of-the-art, we conduct an extensive comparison of recent guardrail models and show that a general-purpose instruction-following model of comparable size achieves competitive results without the need for specific fine-tuning."}
{"Title": "Generate-on-Graph: Treat LLM as both Agent and KG for Incomplete Knowledge Graph Question Answering", "Abstract": "To address the issues of insufficient knowledge and hallucination in Large Language Models (LLMs), numerous studies have explored integrating LLMs with Knowledge Graphs (KGs). However, these methods are typically evaluated on conventional Knowledge Graph Question Answering (KGQA) with complete KGs, where all factual triples required for each question are entirely covered by the given KG. In such cases, LLMs primarily act as an agent to find answer entities within the KG, rather than effectively integrating the internal knowledge of LLMs and external knowledge sources such as KGs. In fact, KGs are often incomplete to cover all the knowledge required to answer questions. To simulate these real-world scenarios and evaluate the ability of LLMs to integrate internal and external knowledge, we propose leveraging LLMs for QA under Incomplete Knowledge Graph (IKGQA), where the provided KG lacks some of the factual triples for each question, and construct corresponding datasets. To handle IKGQA, we propose a training-free method called Generate-on-Graph (GoG), which can generate new factual triples while exploring KGs. Specifically, GoG performs reasoning through a Thinking-Searching-Generating framework, which treats LLM as both Agent and KG in IKGQA. Experimental results on two datasets demonstrate that our GoG outperforms all previous methods."}
{"Title": "Language models and brains align due to more than next-word prediction and word-level information", "Abstract": "Pretrained language models have been shown to significantly predict brain recordings of people comprehending language. Recent work suggests that the prediction of the next word is a key mechanism that contributes to this alignment. What is not yet understood is whether prediction of the next word is necessary for this observed alignment or simply sufficient, and whether there are other shared mechanisms or information that are similarly important. In this work, we take a step towards understanding the reasons for brain alignment via two simple perturbations in popular pretrained language models. These perturbations help us design contrasts that can control for different types of information. By contrasting the brain alignment of these differently perturbed models, we show that improvements in alignment with brain recordings are due to more than improvements in next-word prediction and word-level information."}
{"Title": "LLMEdgeRefine: Enhancing Text Clustering with LLM-Based Boundary Point Refinement", "Abstract": "Text clustering is a fundamental task in natural language processing with numerous applications. However, traditional clustering methods often struggle with domain-specific fine-tuning and the presence of outliers. To address these challenges, we introduce LLMEdgeRefine, an iterative clustering method enhanced by large language models (LLMs), focusing on edge points refinement. LLMEdgeRefine enhances current clustering methods by creating super-points to mitigate outliers and iteratively refining clusters using LLMs for improved semantic coherence. Our method demonstrates superior performance across multiple datasets, outperforming state-of-the-art techniques, and offering robustness, adaptability, and cost-efficiency for diverse text clustering applications."}
{"Title": "CasiMedicos-Arg: A Medical Question Answering Dataset Annotated with Explanatory Argumentative Structures", "Abstract": "Explaining Artificial Intelligence (AI) decisions is a major challenge nowadays in AI, in particular when applied to sensitive scenarios like medicine and law. However, the need to explain the rationale behind decisions is a main issues also for human-based deliberation as it is important to justify why a certain decision has been taken. Resident medical doctors for instance are required not only to provide a (possibly correct) diagnosis, but also to explain how they reached a certain conclusion. Developing new tools to aid residents to train their explanation skills is therefore a central objective of AI in education. In this paper, we follow this direction, and we present, to the best of our knowledge, the first multilingual dataset for Medical Question Answering where correct and incorrect diagnoses for a clinical case are enriched with a natural language explanation written by doctors. These explanations have been manually annotated with argument components (i.e., premise, claim) and argument relations (i.e., attack, support). The Multilingual CasiMedicos-arg dataset consists of 558 clinical cases (English, Spanish, French, Italian) with explanations, where we annotated 5021 claims, 2313 premises, 2431 support relations, and 1106 attack relations. We conclude by showing how competitive baselines perform over this challenging dataset for the argument mining task."}
{"Title": "A Simple and Effective L_2 Norm-Based Strategy for KV Cache Compression", "Abstract": "The deployment of large language models (LLMs) is often hindered by the extensive memory requirements of the Key-Value (KV) cache, especially as context lengths increase. Existing approaches to reduce the KV cache size involve either fine-tuning the model to learn a compression strategy or leveraging attention scores to reduce the sequence length. We analyse the attention distributions in decoder-only Transformers-based models and observe that attention allocation patterns stay consistent across most layers. Surprisingly, we find a clear correlation between the $L_2$ norm and the attention scores over cached KV pairs, where a low $L_2$ norm of a key embedding usually leads to a high attention score during decoding. This finding indicates that the influence of a KV pair is potentially determined by the key embedding itself before being queried. Based on this observation, we compress the KV cache based on the $L_2$ norm of key embeddings. Our experimental results show that this simple strategy can reduce the KV cache size by 50{\\%} on language modelling and needle-in-a-haystack tasks and 90{\\%} on passkey retrieval tasks without losing accuracy. Moreover, without relying on the attention scores, this approach remains compatible with FlashAttention, enabling broader applicability."}
{"Title": "GOME: Grounding-based Metaphor Binding With Conceptual Elaboration For Figurative Language Illustration", "Abstract": "The illustration or visualization of figurative language, such as linguistic metaphors, is an emerging challenge for existing Large Language Models (LLMs) and multimodal models. Due to their comparison of seemingly unrelated concepts in metaphors, existing LLMs have a tendency of over-literalization, which illustrates figurative language solely based on literal objects, ignoring the underlying groundings and associations across disparate metaphorical domains. Furthermore, prior approaches have ignored the binding process between visual objects and metaphorical attributes, which further intensifies the infidelity of visual metaphors. To address the issues above, we propose GOME (Grounding-based Metaphor Binding), which illustrates linguistic metaphors from the grounding perspective elaborated through LLMs. GOME consists of two steps for metaphor illustration, including grounding-based elaboration and scenario visualization. In the elaboration step, metaphorical knowledge is integrated into systematic instructions for LLMs, which employs a CoT prompting method rooted in rhetoric. This approach specifies metaphorical devices such as vehicles and groundings, to ensure accurate and faithful descriptions consumed by text-to-image models. In the visualization step, an inference-time metaphor binding method is realized based on elaboration outputs, which register attentional control during the diffusion process, and captures the underlying attributes from the abstract metaphorical domain. Comprehensive evaluations using multiple downstream tasks confirm that, GOME is superior to isolated LLMs, diffusion models, or their direct collaboration."}
{"Title": "D3CODE: Disentangling Disagreements in Data across Cultures on Offensiveness Detection and Evaluation", "Abstract": "While human annotations play a crucial role in language technologies, annotator subjectivity has long been overlooked in data collection. Recent studies that critically examine this issue are often focused on Western contexts, and solely document differences across age, gender, or racial groups. Consequently, NLP research on subjectivity have failed to consider that individuals within demographic groups may hold diverse values, which influence their perceptions beyond group norms. To effectively incorporate these considerations into NLP pipelines, we need datasets with extensive parallel annotations from a variety of social and cultural groups.In this paper we introduce the D3CODE dataset: a large-scale cross-cultural dataset of parallel annotations for offensive language in over 4.5K English sentences annotated by a pool of more than 4k annotators, balanced across gender and age, from across 21 countries, representing eight geo-cultural regions. The dataset captures annotators{'} moral values along six moral foundations: care, equality, proportionality, authority, loyalty, and purity. Our analyses reveal substantial regional variations in annotators{'} perceptions that are shaped by individual moral values, providing crucial insights for developing pluralistic, culturally sensitive NLP models."}
{"Title": "PALM: Few-Shot Prompt Learning for Audio Language Models", "Abstract": "Audio-Language Models (ALMs) have recently achieved remarkable success in zero-shot audio recognition tasks, which match features of audio waveforms with class-specific text prompt features, inspired by advancements in Vision-Language Models (VLMs). Given the sensitivity of zero-shot performance to the choice of hand-crafted text prompts, many prompt learning techniques have been developed for VLMs. We explore the efficacy of these approaches in ALMs and propose a novel method, Prompt Learning in Audio Language Models (PALM), which optimizes the feature space of the text encoder branch. Unlike existing methods that work in the input space, our approach results in greater training efficiency. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on 11 audio recognition datasets, encompassing a variety of speech-processing tasks, and compare the results with three baselines in a few-shot learning setup. Our method is either on par with or outperforms other approaches while being computationally less demanding. Our code is publicly available at \\url{https://asif-hanif.github.io/palm/}."}
{"Title": "Annotator-Centric Active Learning for Subjective NLP Tasks", "Abstract": "Active Learning (AL) addresses the high costs of collecting human annotations by strategically annotating the most informative samples. However, for subjective NLP tasks, incorporating a wide range of perspectives in the annotation process is crucial to capture the variability in human judgments. We introduce Annotator-Centric Active Learning (ACAL), which incorporates an annotator selection strategy following data sampling. Our objective is two-fold: (1) to efficiently approximate the full diversity of human judgments, and (2) to assess model performance using annotator-centric metrics, which value minority and majority perspectives equally. We experiment with multiple annotator selection strategies across seven subjective NLP tasks, employing both traditional and novel, human-centered evaluation metrics. Our findings indicate that ACAL improves data efficiency and excels in annotator-centric performance evaluations. However, its success depends on the availability of a sufficiently large and diverse pool of annotators to sample from."}
{"Title": "On the Proper Treatment of Tokenization in Psycholinguistics", "Abstract": "Language models are widely used in computational psycholinguistics to test theories that relate the negative log probability (the surprisal) of a region of interest (a substring of characters) under a language model to its cognitive cost experienced by readers, as operationalized, for example, by gaze duration on the region. However, the application of modern language models to psycholinguistic studies is complicated by the practice of using tokenization as an intermediate step in training a model. Doing so results in a language model over *token* strings rather than one over character strings. Vexingly, regions of interest are generally misaligned with these token strings. The paper argues that token-level language models should be (approximately) marginalized into character-level language models before they are used in psycholinguistic studies to compute the surprisal of a region of interest; then, the marginalized character-level language model can be used to compute the surprisal of an arbitrary character substring, which we term a focal area, that the experimenter may wish to use as a predictor. Our proposal of marginalizing a token-level model into a character-level one solves this misalignment issue independently of the tokenization scheme. Empirically, we discover various focal areas whose surprisal is a better psychometric predictor than the surprisal of the region of interest itself."}
{"Title": "Enhanced Hallucination Detection in Neural Machine Translation through Simple Detector Aggregation", "Abstract": "Hallucinated translations pose significant threats and safety concerns when it comes to practical deployment of machine translation systems. Previous research works have identified that detectors exhibit complementary performance {---} different detectors excel at detecting different types of hallucinations. In this paper, we propose to address the limitations of individual detectors by combining them and introducing a straightforward method for aggregating multiple detectors. Our results demonstrate the efficacy of our aggregated detector, providing a promising step towards evermore reliable machine translation systems."}
{"Title": "Jailbreaking LLMs with Arabic Transliteration and Arabizi", "Abstract": "This study identifies the potential vulnerabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) to {`}jailbreak{'} attacks, specifically focusing on the Arabic language and its various forms. While most research has concentrated on English-based prompt manipulation, our investigation broadens the scope to investigate the Arabic language. We initially tested the AdvBench benchmark in Standardized Arabic, finding that even with prompt manipulation techniques like prefix injection, it was insufficient to provoke LLMs into generating unsafe content. However, when using Arabic transliteration and chatspeak (or arabizi), we found that unsafe content could be produced on platforms like OpenAI GPT-4 and Anthropic Claude 3 Sonnet. Our findings suggest that using Arabic and its various forms could expose information that might remain hidden, potentially increasing the risk of jailbreak attacks. We hypothesize that this exposure could be due to the model{'}s learned connection to specific words, highlighting the need for more comprehensive safety training across all language forms."}
{"Title": "Who is better at math, Jenny or Jingzhen? Uncovering Stereotypes in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have been shown to propagate and amplify harmful stereotypes, particularly those that disproportionately affect marginalised communities. To understand the effect of these stereotypes more comprehensively, we introduce GlobalBias, a dataset of 876k sentences incorporating 40 distinct gender-by-ethnicity groups alongside descriptors typically used in bias literature, which enables us to study a broad set of stereotypes from around the world. We use GlobalBias to directly probe a suite of LMs via perplexity, which we use as a proxy to determine how certain stereotypes are represented in the model{'}s internal representations. Following this, we generate character profiles based on given names and evaluate the prevalence of stereotypes in model outputs. We find that the demographic groups associated with various stereotypes remain consistent across model likelihoods and model outputs. Furthermore, larger models consistently display higher levels of stereotypical outputs, even when explicitly instructed not to."}
{"Title": "Instruction Matters: A Simple yet Effective Task Selection for Optimized Instruction Tuning of Specific Tasks", "Abstract": "Instruction tuning has been proven effective in enhancing zero-shot generalization across various tasks and in improving the performance of specific tasks. For task-specific improvements, strategically selecting and training on related tasks that provide meaningful supervision is crucial, as this approach enhances efficiency and prevents performance degradation from learning irrelevant tasks. In this light, we introduce a simple yet effective task selection method that leverages instruction information alone to identify relevant tasks, optimizing instruction tuning for specific tasks. Our method is significantly more efficient than traditional approaches, which require complex measurements of pairwise transferability between tasks or the creation of data samples for the target task. Additionally, by aligning the model with the unique instructional template style of the meta-dataset, we enhance its ability to granularly discern relevant tasks, leading to improved overall performance. Experimental results demonstrate that training on a small set of tasks, chosen solely based on the instructions, results in substantial improvements in performance on benchmarks such as P3, Big-Bench, NIV2, and Big-Bench Hard. Significantly, these improvements surpass those achieved by prior task selection methods, highlighting the superiority of our approach."}
{"Title": "Recurrent Alignment with Hard Attention for Hierarchical Text Rating", "Abstract": "While large language models (LLMs) excel at understanding and generating plain text, they are not tailored to handle hierarchical text structures or directly predict task-specific properties such as text rating. In fact, selectively and repeatedly grasping the hierarchical structure of large-scale text is pivotal for deciphering its essence. To this end, we propose a novel framework for hierarchical text rating utilizing LLMs, which incorporates Recurrent Alignment with Hard Attention (RAHA). Particularly, hard attention mechanism prompts a frozen LLM to selectively focus on pertinent leaf texts associated with the root text and generate symbolic representations of their relationships. Inspired by the gradual stabilization of the Markov Chain, recurrent alignment strategy involves feeding predicted ratings iteratively back into the prompts of another trainable LLM, aligning it to progressively approximate the desired target. Experimental results demonstrate that RAHA outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods on three hierarchical text rating datasets. Theoretical and empirical analysis confirms RAHA{'}s ability to gradually converge towards the underlying target through multiple inferences. Additional experiments on plain text rating datasets verify the effectiveness of this Markov-like alignment. Our data and code can be available in https://github.com/ECNU-Text-Computing/Markov-LLM."}
{"Title": "CHESS: Optimizing LLM Inference via Channel-Wise Thresholding and Selective Sparsification", "Abstract": "Deploying large language models (LLMs) on edge devices presents significant challenges due to the substantial computational overhead and memory requirements. Activation sparsification can mitigate these resource challenges by reducing the number of activated neurons during inference. Existing methods typically employ thresholding-based sparsification based on the statistics of activation tensors. However, they do not model the impact of activation sparsification on performance, resulting in suboptimal performance degradation. To address the limitations, this paper reformulates the activation sparsification problem to explicitly capture the relationship between activation sparsity and model performance. Then, this paper proposes CHESS, a general activation sparsification approach via CHannel-wise thrEsholding and Selective Sparsification. First, channel-wise thresholding assigns a unique threshold to each activation channel in the feed-forward network (FFN) layers. Then, selective sparsification involves applying thresholding-based activation sparsification to specific layers within the attention modules. Finally, we detail the implementation of sparse kernels to accelerate LLM inference. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed CHESS achieves lower performance degradation over eight downstream tasks while activating fewer parameters than existing methods, thus speeding up the LLM inference by up to 1.27x."}
{"Title": "Semformer: Transformer Language Models with Semantic Planning", "Abstract": "Next-token prediction serves as the dominant component in current neural language models.During the training phase, the model employs teacher forcing, which predicts tokens based on all preceding ground truth tokens.However, this approach has been found to create shortcuts, utilizing the revealed prefix to spuriously fit future tokens, potentially compromising the accuracy of the next-token predictor.In this paper, we introduce Semformer, a novel method of training a Transformer language model that explicitly models the semantic planning of response.Specifically, we incorporate a sequence of planning tokens into the prefix, guiding the planning token representations to predict the latent semantic representations of the response, which are induced by an autoencoder.In a minimal planning task (i.e., graph path-finding), our model exhibits near-perfect performance and effectively mitigates shortcut learning, a feat that standard training methods and baseline models have been unable to accomplish.Furthermore, we pretrain Semformer from scratch with 125M parameters, demonstrating its efficacy through measures of perplexity, in-context learning, and fine-tuning on summarization tasks."}
{"Title": "DocCGen: Document-based Controlled Code Generation", "Abstract": "Recent developments show that Large Language Models (LLMs) produce state-of-the-art performance on natural language (NL) to code generation for resource-rich general-purpose languages like C++, Java, and Python. However, their practical usage for structured domain-specific languages (DSLs) such as YAML, JSON is limited due to domain-specific schema, grammar, and customizations generally unseen by LLMs during pre-training. Efforts have been made to mitigate this challenge via in-context learning through relevant examples or by fine-tuning. However, it suffers from problems, such as limited DSL samples and prompt sensitivity but enterprises maintain good documentation of the DSLs. Therefore, we propose DocCGen, a framework that can leverage such rich knowledge by breaking the NL-to-Code generation task for structured code languages into a two-step process. First, it detects the correct libraries using the library documentation that best matches the NL query. Then, it utilizes schema rules extracted from the documentation of these libraries to constrain the decoding. We evaluate our framework for two complex structured languages, Ansible YAML and Bash command, consisting of two settings: Out-of-domain (OOD) and In domain (ID). Our extensive experiments show that DocCGen consistently improves different sized language models across all six evaluation metrics, reducing syntactic and semantic errors in structured code."}
{"Title": "Semantics and Sentiment: Cross-lingual Variations in Emoji Use", "Abstract": "Over the past decade, the use of emojis in social media has seen a rapid increase. Despite their popularity and image-grounded nature, previous studies have found that people interpret emojis inconsistently when presented in context and in isolation. In this work, we explore whether emoji semantics differ across languages and how semantics interacts with sentiment in emoji use across languages. To do so, we developed a corpus containing the literal meanings for a set of emojis, as defined by L1 speakers in English, Portuguese and Chinese. We then use these definitions to assess whether speakers of different languages agree on whether an emoji is being used literally or figuratively in the context where they are grounded in, as well as whether this literal and figurative use correlates with the sentiment of the context itself. We found that there were varying levels of disagreement on the definition for each emoji but that these stayed fairly consistent across languages. We also demonstrated a correlation between the sentiment of a tweet and the figurative use of an emoji, providing theoretical underpinnings for empirical results in NLP tasks, particularly offering insights that can benefit sentiment analysis models."}
{"Title": "The Emergence of Compositional Languages in Multi-entity Referential Games: from Image to Graph Representations", "Abstract": "To study the requirements needed for a human-like language to develop, Language Emergence research uses jointly trained artificial agents which communicate to solve a task, the most popular of which is a referential game. The targets that agents refer to typically involve a single entity, which limits their ecological validity and the complexity of the emergent languages. Here, we present a simple multi-entity game in which targets include multiple entities that are spatially related. We ask whether agents dealing with multi-entity targets benefit from the use of graph representations, and explore four different graph schemes. Our game requires more sophisticated analyses to capture the extent to which the emergent languages are compositional, and crucially, what the decomposed features are. We find that emergent languages from our setup exhibit a considerable degree of compositionality, but not over all features."}
{"Title": "Transformers are Multi-State RNNs", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Evaluating Large Language Models along Dimensions of Language Variation: A Systematik Invesdigatiom uv Cross-lingual Generalization", "Abstract": "While large language models exhibit certain cross-lingual generalization capabilities, they suffer from performance degradation (PD) on unseen closely-related languages (CRLs) and dialects relative to their high-resource language neighbour (HRLN). However, we currently lack a fundamental understanding of what kinds of linguistic distances contribute to PD, and to what extent. Furthermore, studies of cross-lingual generalization are confounded by unknown quantities of CRL language traces in the training data, and by the frequent lack of availability of evaluation data in lower-resource related languages and dialects. To address these issues, we model phonological, morphological, and lexical distance as Bayesian noise processes to synthesize artificial languages that are controllably distant from the HRLN. We analyse PD as a function of underlying noise parameters, offering insights on model robustness to isolated and composed linguistic phenomena, and the impact of task and HRL characteristics on PD. We calculate parameter posteriors on real CRL-HRLN pair data and show that they follow computed trends of artificial languages, demonstrating the viability of our noisers. Our framework offers a cheap solution for estimating task performance on an unseen CRL given HRLN performance using its posteriors, as well as for diagnosing observed PD on a CRL in terms of its linguistic distances from its HRLN, and opens doors to principled methods of mitigating performance degradation."}
{"Title": "Fuse to Forget: Bias Reduction and Selective Memorization through Model Fusion", "Abstract": "Model fusion research aims to aggregate the knowledge of multiple individual models to enhance performance by combining their weights. In this work, we study the inverse problem: investigating whether model fusion can be used to reduce unwanted knowledge. We investigate the effects of model fusion in three scenarios: the learning of shortcuts, social biases, and memorization of training data in fine-tuned language models. Through experiments covering classification and generation tasks, our analysis highlights that shared knowledge among models is enhanced during model fusion, while unshared knowledge is usually forgotten. Based on this observation, we demonstrate the potential of model fusion as a debiasing tool and showcase its efficacy in addressing privacy concerns associated with language models."}
{"Title": "Collective Critics for Creative Story Generation", "Abstract": "Generating a long story of several thousand words with narrative coherence using Large Language Models (LLMs) has been a challenging task. Previous research has addressed this challenge by proposing different frameworks that create a story plan and generate a long story based on that plan. However, these frameworks have been mainly focusing on maintaining narrative coherence in stories, often overlooking creativity in story planning and the expressiveness of the stories generated from those plans, which are desirable properties to captivate readers{'} interest. In this paper, we propose Collective Critics for Creative Story Generation framework (CritiCS), which is composed of plan refining stage (CrPlan) and story generation stage (CrText), to integrate a collective revision mechanism that promotes those properties into long-form story generation process. Specifically, in each stage, a group of LLM critics and one leader collaborate to incrementally refine drafts of plan and story throughout multiple rounds. Extensive human evaluation shows that the CritiCS can significantly enhance story creativity and reader engagement, while also maintaining narrative coherence. Furthermore, the design of the framework allows active participation from human writers in any role within the critique process, enabling interactive human-machine collaboration in story writing."}
{"Title": "Surprise! Uniform Information Density Isn't the Whole Story: Predicting Surprisal Contours in Long-form Discourse", "Abstract": "The Uniform Information Density (UID) hypothesis posits that speakers tend to distribute information evenly across linguistic units to achieve efficient communication. Of course, information rate in texts and discourses is not perfectly uniform. While these fluctuations can be viewed as theoretically uninteresting noise on top of a uniform target, another explanation is that UID is not the only functional pressure regulating information content in a language. Speakers may also seek to maintain interest, adhere to writing conventions, and build compelling arguments. In this paper, we propose one such functional pressure; namely that speakers modulate information rate based on location within a hierarchically-structured model of discourse. We term this the Structured Context Hypothesis and test it by predicting the surprisal contours of naturally occurring discourses extracted from large language models using predictors derived from discourse structure. We find that hierarchical predictors are significant predictors of a discourse{'}s information contour and that deeply nested hierarchical predictors are more predictive than shallow ones. This work takes an initial step beyond UID to propose testable hypotheses for why the information rate fluctuates in predictable ways."}
{"Title": "Model-based Preference Optimization in Abstractive Summarization without Human Feedback", "Abstract": "In abstractive summarization, the challenge of producing concise and accurate summaries arises from the vast amount of information contained in the source document. Consequently, although Large Language Models (LLMs) can generate fluent text, they often introduce inaccuracies by hallucinating content not found in the original source. While supervised fine-tuning methods that maximize likelihood contribute to this issue, they do not consistently enhance the faithfulness of the summaries. Preference-based optimization methods, such as Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), can further refine the model to align with human preferences. However, these methods still heavily depend on costly human feedback. In this work, we introduce a novel and straightforward approach called Model-based Preference Optimization (MPO) to fine-tune LLMs for improved summarization abilities without any human feedback. By leveraging the model{'}s inherent summarization capabilities, we create a preference dataset that is fully generated by the model using different decoding strategies. Our experiments on standard summarization datasets and various metrics demonstrate that our proposed MPO significantly enhances the quality of generated summaries without relying on human feedback. The code is publicly available at \\url{https://github.com/cjaep/MPO}."}
{"Title": "Are Data Augmentation Methods in Named Entity Recognition Applicable for Uncertainty Estimation?", "Abstract": "This work investigates the impact of data augmentation on confidence calibration and uncertainty estimation in Named Entity Recognition (NER) tasks. For the future advance of NER in safety-critical fields like healthcare and finance, it is essential to achieve accurate predictions with calibrated confidence when applying Deep Neural Networks (DNNs), including Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs), as a real-world application. However, DNNs are prone to miscalibration, which limits their applicability. Moreover, existing methods for calibration and uncertainty estimation are computational expensive. Our investigation in NER found that data augmentation improves calibration and uncertainty in cross-genre and cross-lingual setting, especially in-domain setting. Furthermore, we showed that the calibration for NER tends to be more effective when the perplexity of the sentences generated by data augmentation is lower, and that increasing the size of the augmentation further improves calibration and uncertainty."}
{"Title": "NeuroTrialNER: An Annotated Corpus for Neurological Diseases and Therapies in Clinical Trial Registries", "Abstract": "Extracting and aggregating information from clinical trial registries could provide invaluable insights into the drug development landscape and advance the treatment of neurologic diseases. However, achieving this at scale is hampered by the volume of available data and the lack of an annotated corpus to assist in the development of automation tools. Thus, we introduce NeuroTrialNER, a new and fully open corpus for named entity recognition (NER). It comprises 1093 clinical trial summaries sourced from ClinicalTrials.gov, annotated for neurological diseases, therapeutic interventions, and control treatments. We describe our data collection process and the corpus in detail. We demonstrate its utility for NER using large language models and achieve a close-to-human performance. By bridging the gap in data resources, we hope to foster the development of text processing tools that help researchers navigate clinical trials data more easily."}
{"Title": "Fool Me Once? Contrasting Textual and Visual Explanations in a Clinical Decision-Support Setting", "Abstract": "The growing capabilities of AI models are leading to their wider use, including in safety-critical domains. Explainable AI (XAI) aims to make these models safer to use by making their inference process more transparent. However, current explainability methods are seldom evaluated in the way they are intended to be used: by real-world end users. To address this, we conducted a large-scale user study with 85 healthcare practitioners in the context of human-AI collaborative chest X-ray analysis. We evaluated three types of explanations: visual explanations (saliency maps), natural language explanations, and a combination of both modalities. We specifically examined how different explanation types influence users depending on whether the AI advice and explanations are factually correct. We find that text-based explanations lead to significant over-reliance, which is alleviated by combining them with saliency maps. We also observe that the quality of explanations, that is, how much factually correct information they entail, and how much this aligns with AI correctness, significantly impacts the usefulness of the different explanation types."}
{"Title": "Towards Faithful Knowledge Graph Explanation Through Deep Alignment in Commonsense Question Answering", "Abstract": "The fusion of language models (LMs) and knowledge graphs (KGs) is widely used in commonsense question answering, but generating faithful explanations remains challenging. Current methods often overlook path decoding faithfulness, leading to divergence between graph encoder outputs and model predictions. We identify confounding effects and LM-KG misalignment as key factors causing spurious explanations. To address this, we introduce the LM-KG Fidelity metric to assess KG representation reliability and propose the LM-KG Distribution-aware Alignment (LKDA) algorithm to improve explanation faithfulness. Without ground truth, we evaluate KG explanations using the proposed Fidelity-Sparsity Trade-off Curve. Experiments on CommonsenseQA and OpenBookQA show that LKDA significantly enhances explanation fidelity and model performance, highlighting the need to address distributional misalignment for reliable commonsense reasoning."}
{"Title": "Generation with Dynamic Vocabulary", "Abstract": "We introduce a new dynamic vocabulary for language models. It can involve arbitrary text spans during generation. These text spans act as basic generation bricks, akin to tokens in the traditional static vocabularies. We show that, the ability to generate multi-tokens atomically improve both generation quality and efficiency (compared to the standard language model, the MAUVE metric is increased by 25{\\%}, the latency is decreased by 20 {\\%}). The dynamic vocabulary can be deployed in a plug-and-play way, thus is attractive for various downstream applications. For example, we demonstrate that dynamic vocabulary can be applied to different domains in a training-free manner. It also helps to generate reliable citations in question answering tasks (substantially enhancing citation results without compromising answer accuracy)."}
{"Title": "Argument Relation Classification through Discourse Markers and Adversarial Training", "Abstract": "Argument relation classification (ARC) identifies supportive, contrasting and neutral relations between argumentative units. The current approaches rely on transformer architectures which have proven to be more effective than traditional methods based on hand-crafted linguistic features. In this paper, we introduce DISARM, which advances the state of the art with a training procedure combining multi-task and adversarial learning strategies. By jointly solving the ARC and discourse marker detection tasks and aligning their embedding spaces into a unified latent space, DISARM outperforms the accuracy of existing approaches."}
{"Title": "Getting The Most Out of Your Training Data: Exploring Unsupervised Tasks for Morphological Inflection", "Abstract": "Pre-trained transformers such as BERT have been shown to be effective in many natural language tasks. However, they are under-explored for character-level sequence to sequence tasks. In this work, we investigate pre-training transformers for the character-level task of morphological inflection in several languages. We compare various training setups and secondary tasks where unsupervised data taken directly from the target task is used. We show that training on secondary unsupervised tasks increases inflection performance even without any external data, suggesting that models learn from additional unsupervised tasks themselves{---}not just from additional data. We also find that this does not hold true for specific combinations of secondary task and training setup, which has interesting implications for denoising objectives in character-level tasks."}
{"Title": "Link, Synthesize, Retrieve: Universal Document Linking for Zero-Shot Information Retrieval", "Abstract": "Despite the recent advancements in information retrieval (IR), zero-shot IR remains a significant challenge, especially when dealing with new domains, languages, and newly-released use cases that lack historical query traffic from existing users. For such cases, it is common to use query augmentations followed by fine-tuning pre-trained models on the document data paired with synthetic queries. In this work, we propose a novel Universal Document Linking (UDL) algorithm, which links similar documents to enhance synthetic query generation across multiple datasets with different characteristics. UDL leverages entropy for the choice of similarity models and named entity recognition (NER) for the link decision of documents using similarity scores. Our empirical studies demonstrate the effectiveness and universality of the UDL across diverse datasets and IR models, surpassing state-of-the-art methods in zero-shot cases. The developed code for reproducibility is included in https://github.com/eoduself/UDL"}
{"Title": "Efficient Unseen Language Adaptation for Multilingual Pre-Trained Language Models", "Abstract": "Multilingual pre-trained language models (mPLMs) have demonstrated notable effectiveness in zero-shot cross-lingual transfer tasks. Specifically, they can be fine-tuned solely on tasks in the source language and subsequently applied to tasks in the target language. However, for low-resource languages unseen during pre-training, relying solely on zero-shot language transfer often yields sub-optimal results. One common strategy is to continue training PLMs using masked language modeling objectives on the target language. Nonetheless, this approach can be inefficient due to the need to adjust all parameters for language adaptation. In this paper, we propose a more efficient solution: soft-prompt tuning for language adaptation. Our experiments demonstrate that with carefully designed prompts, soft-prompt tuning enables mPLMs to achieve effective zero-shot cross-lingual transfer to downstream tasks in previously unseen languages. Notably, we found that prompt tuning outperforms continuously trained baselines on two text classification benchmarks, encompassing 20 low-resource languages while utilizing a mere 0.28{\\%} of the tuned parameters. These results underscore the superior adaptability of mPLMs to previously unseen languages afforded by soft-prompt tuning compared to traditional fine-tuning methods."}
{"Title": "Prove Your Point!: Bringing Proof-Enhancement Principles to Argumentative Essay Generation", "Abstract": "Argumentative essay generation (AEG) aims to generate complete texts on specific controversial topics or debates. Although current AEG methods can generate individual opinions, they often overlook the high-level connections between these opinions. This often leads to the generated results being mired in logical confusion, unable to proof their own arguments effectively. The generated essay may present evidence that contradicts the claims or they may fail to assemble the claims into logical flow. In this paper, we present a unified two-stage framework: Proof-Enhancement and Self-Annotation (PESA) for AEG with a focus on logical enhancement. Specifically, we first construct pseudo-labels for logical information,claims and grounds, using a large language model. We then propose a tree planning approach that introduces proof principles and ensures logical consistency. Extensive experimental results show that, benefiting from proof principle guidance, PESA generates argumentative essays with better logical validity and persuasiveness than strong baseline models."}
{"Title": "TV-TREES: Multimodal Entailment Trees for Neuro-Symbolic Video Reasoning", "Abstract": "It is challenging for models to understand complex, multimodal content such as television clips, and this is in part because video-language models often rely on single-modality reasoning and lack interpretability. To combat these issues we propose TV-TREES, the first multimodal entailment tree generator. TV-TREES serves as an approach to video understanding that promotes interpretable joint-modality reasoning by searching for trees of entailment relationships between simple text-video evidence and higher-level conclusions that prove question-answer pairs. We also introduce the task of multimodal entailment tree generation to evaluate reasoning quality. Our method{'}s performance on the challenging TVQA benchmark demonstrates interpretable, state-of-the-art zero-shot performance on full clips, illustrating that multimodal entailment tree generation can be a best-of-both-worlds alternative to black-box systems."}
{"Title": "Unsupervised Extraction of Dialogue Policies from Conversations", "Abstract": "Dialogue policies play a crucial role in developing task-oriented dialogue systems, yet their development and maintenance are challenging and typically require substantial effort from experts in dialogue modeling. While in many situations, large amounts of conversational data are available for the task at hand, people lack an effective solution able to extract dialogue policies from this data. In this paper, we address this gap by first illustrating how Large Language Models (LLMs) can be instrumental in extracting dialogue policies from datasets, through the conversion of conversations into a unified intermediate representation consisting of canonical forms. We then propose a novel method for generating dialogue policies utilizing a controllable and interpretable graph-based methodology. By combining canonical forms across conversations into a flow network, we find that running graph traversal algorithms helps in extracting dialogue flows. These flows are a better representation of the underlying interactions than flows extracted by prompting LLMs. Our technique focuses on giving conversation designers greater control, offering a productivity tool to improve the process of developing dialogue policies."}
{"Title": "GRIZAL: Generative Prior-guided Zero-Shot Temporal Action Localization", "Abstract": "Zero-shot temporal action localization (TAL) aims to temporally localize actions in videos without prior training examples. To address the challenges of TAL, we offer GRIZAL, a model that uses multimodal embeddings and dynamic motion cues to localize actions effectively. GRIZAL achieves sample diversity by using large-scale generative models such as GPT-4 for generating textual augmentations and DALL-E for generating image augmentations. Our model integrates vision-language embeddings with optical flow insights, optimized through a blend of supervised and self-supervised loss functions. On ActivityNet, Thumos14 and Charades-STA datasets, GRIZAL greatly outperforms state-of-the-art zero-shot TAL models, demonstrating its robustness and adaptability across a wide range of video content. We will make all the models and code publicly available by open-sourcing them."}
{"Title": "Preserving Multi-Modal Capabilities of Pre-trained VLMs for Improving Vision-Linguistic Compositionality", "Abstract": "In this paper, we propose a new method to enhance compositional understanding in pre-trained vision and language models (VLMs) without sacrificing performance in zero-shot multi-modal tasks. Traditional fine-tuning approaches often improve compositional reasoning at the cost of degrading multi-modal capabilities, primarily due to the use of global hard negative (HN) loss, which contrasts global representations of images and texts. This global HN loss pushes HN texts that are highly similar to the original ones, damaging the model{'}s multi-modal representations. To overcome this limitation, we propose Fine-grained Selective Calibrated CLIP (FSC-CLIP), which integrates local hard negative loss and selective calibrated regularization. These innovations provide fine-grained negative supervision while preserving the model{'}s representational integrity. Our extensive evaluations across diverse benchmarks for both compositionality and multi-modal tasks show that FSC-CLIP not only achieves compositionality on par with state-of-the-art models but also retains strong multi-modal capabilities. Code is available at: https://github.com/ytaek-oh/fsc-clip."}
{"Title": "FoodieQA: A Multimodal Dataset for Fine-Grained Understanding of Chinese Food Culture", "Abstract": "Food is a rich and varied dimension of cultural heritage, crucial to both individuals and social groups. To bridge the gap in the literature on the often-overlooked regional diversity in this domain, we introduce FoodieQA, a manually curated, fine-grained image-text dataset capturing the intricate features of food cultures across various regions in China. We evaluate vision{--}language Models (VLMs) and large language models (LLMs) on newly collected, unseen food images and corresponding questions. FoodieQA comprises three multiple-choice question-answering tasks where models need to answer questions based on multiple images, a single image, and text-only descriptions, respectively. While LLMs excel at text-based question answering, surpassing human accuracy, the open-sourced VLMs still fall short by 41{\\%} on multi-image and 21{\\%} on single-image VQA tasks, although closed-weights models perform closer to human levels (within 10{\\%}). Our findings highlight that understanding food and its cultural implications remains a challenging and under-explored direction."}
{"Title": "A Two-Step Approach for Data-Efficient French Pronunciation Learning", "Abstract": "Recent studies have addressed intricate phonological phenomena in French, relying on either extensive linguistic knowledge or a significant amount of sentence-level pronunciation data. However, creating such resources is expensive and non-trivial. To this end, we propose a novel two-step approach that encompasses two pronunciation tasks: grapheme-to-phoneme and post-lexical processing. We then investigate the efficacy of the proposed approach with a notably limited amount of sentence-level pronunciation data. Our findings demonstrate that the proposed two-step approach effectively mitigates the lack of extensive labeled data, and serves as a feasible solution for addressing French phonological phenomena even under resource-constrained environments."}
{"Title": "Exploring Intra and Inter-language Consistency in Embeddings with ICA", "Abstract": "Word embeddings represent words as multidimensional real vectors, facilitating data analysis and processing, but are often challenging to interpret. Independent Component Analysis (ICA) creates clearer semantic axes by identifying independent key features. Previous research has shown ICA{'}s potential to reveal universal semantic axes across languages. However, it lacked verification of the consistency of independent components within and across languages. We investigated the consistency of semantic axes in two ways: both within a single language and across multiple languages. We first probed into intra-language consistency, focusing on the reproducibility of axes by performing ICA multiple times and clustering the outcomes. Then, we statistically examined inter-language consistency by verifying those axes{'} correspondences using statistical tests. We newly applied statistical methods to establish a robust framework that ensures the reliability and universality of semantic axes."}
{"Title": "DetoxLLM: A Framework for Detoxification with Explanations", "Abstract": "Prior works on detoxification are scattered in the sense that they do not cover all aspects of detoxification needed in a real-world scenario. Notably, prior works restrict the task of developing detoxification models to only a seen subset of platforms, leaving the question of how the models would perform on unseen platforms unexplored. Additionally, these works do not address non-detoxifiability, a phenomenon whereby the toxic text cannot be detoxified without altering the meaning. We propose DetoxLLM, the first comprehensive end-to-end detoxification framework, which attempts to alleviate the aforementioned limitations. We first introduce a cross-platform pseudo-parallel corpus applying multi-step data processing and generation strategies leveraging ChatGPT. We then train a suite of detoxification models with our cross-platform corpus. We show that our detoxification models outperform the SoTA model trained with human-annotated parallel corpus. We further introduce explanation to promote transparency and trustworthiness. DetoxLLM additionally offers a unique paraphrase detector especially dedicated for the detoxification task to tackle the non-detoxifiable cases. Through experimental analysis, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our cross-platform corpus and the robustness of DetoxLLM against adversarial toxicity."}
{"Title": "Comparing a BERT Classifier and a GPT classifier for Detecting Connective Language Across Multiple Social Media", "Abstract": "This study presents an approach for detecting connective language{---}defined as language that facilitates engagement, understanding, and conversation{---}from social media discussions. We developed and evaluated two types of classifiers: BERT and GPT-3.5 turbo. Our results demonstrate that the BERT classifier significantly outperforms GPT-3.5 turbo in detecting connective language. Furthermore, our analysis confirms that connective language is distinct from related concepts measuring discourse qualities, such as politeness and toxicity. We also explore the potential of BERT-based classifiers for platform-agnostic tools. This research advances our understanding of the linguistic dimensions of online communication and proposes practical tools for detecting connective language across diverse digital environments."}
{"Title": "ShadowLLM: Predictor-based Contextual Sparsity for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The high power consumption and latency-sensitive deployments of large language models (LLMs) have motivated efficiency techniques like quantization and sparsity. Contextual sparsity, where the sparsity pattern is input-dependent, is crucial in LLMs because the permanent removal of attention heads or neurons from LLMs can significantly degrade accuracy. Prior work has attempted to model contextual sparsity using neural networks trained to predict activation magnitudes, which can be used to dynamically prune structures with low predicted activation magnitude. In this paper, we look beyond magnitude-based pruning criteria to assess attention head and neuron importance in LLMs. We develop a novel predictor called ShadowLLM, which can shadow the LLM behavior and enforce better sparsity patterns, resulting in over 15{\\%} improvement in end-to-end accuracy compared to prior methods. In addition, ShadowLLM achieves up to a 20{\\%} speed-up over the state-of-the-art DejaVu framework. These enhancements are validated on Llama-2 and OPT models with up to 30 billion parameters. Our code is available at https://github.com/abdelfattah-lab/shadow{\\_}llm/"}
{"Title": "Emotion Granularity from Text: An Aggregate-Level Indicator of Mental Health", "Abstract": "We are united in how emotions are central to shaping our experiences; yet, individuals differ greatly in how we each identify, categorize, and express emotions. In psychology, variation in the ability of individuals to differentiate between emotion concepts is called emotion granularity (determined through self-reports of one{'}s emotions). High emotion granularity has been linked with better mental and physical health; whereas low emotion granularity has been linked with maladaptive emotion regulation strategies and poor health outcomes. In this work, we propose computational measures of emotion granularity derived from temporally-ordered speaker utterances in social media (in lieu of self reports that suffer from various biases). We then investigate the effectiveness of such text-derived measures of emotion granularity in functioning as markers of various mental health conditions (MHCs). We establish baseline measures of emotion granularity derived from textual utterances, and show that, at an aggregate level, emotion granularities are significantly lower for people self-reporting as having an MHC than for the control population. This paves the way towards a better understanding of the MHCs, and specifically the role emotions play in our well-being."}
{"Title": "BLSP-Emo: Towards Empathetic Large Speech-Language Models", "Abstract": "The recent release of GPT-4o showcased the potential of end-to-end multimodal models, not just in terms of low latency but also in their ability to understand and generate expressive speech with rich emotions. While the details are unknown to the open research community, it likely involves significant amounts of curated data and compute, neither of which is readily accessible. In this paper, we present BLSP-Emo (Bootstrapped Language-Speech Pretraining with Emotion support), a novel approach to developing an end-to-end speech-language model capable of understanding both semantics and emotions in speech and generate empathetic responses. BLSP-Emo utilizes existing speech recognition (ASR) and speech emotion recognition (SER) datasets through a two-stage process. The first stage focuses on semantic alignment, following recent work on pretraining speech-language models using ASR data. The second stage performs emotion alignment with the pretrained speech-language model on an emotion-aware continuation task constructed from SER data. Our experiments demonstrate that the BLSP-Emo model excels in comprehending speech and delivering empathetic responses, both in instruction-following tasks and conversations."}
{"Title": "SynthesizRR: Generating Diverse Datasets with Retrieval Augmentation", "Abstract": "It is often desirable to distill the capabilities of large language models (LLMs) into smaller student models due to compute and memory constraints. One way to do this for classification tasks is via dataset synthesis, which can be accomplished by generating examples of each label from the LLM. Prior approaches to synthesis use few-shot prompting, which relies on the LLM{'}s parametric knowledge to generate usable examples. However, this leads to issues of repetition, bias towards popular entities, and stylistic differences from human text. In this work, we propose Synthesize by Retrieval and Refinement (SynthesizRR), which uses retrieval augmentation to introduce variety into the dataset synthesis process: as retrieved passages vary, the LLM is seeded with different content to generate its examples. We empirically study the synthesis of six datasets, covering topic classification, sentiment analysis, tone detection, and humor, requiring complex synthesis strategies. We find SynthesizRR greatly improves lexical and semantic diversity, similarity to human-written text, and distillation performance, when compared to 32-shot prompting and four prior approaches."}
{"Title": "Multimodal Self-Instruct: Synthetic Abstract Image and Visual Reasoning Instruction Using Language Model", "Abstract": "Although most current large multimodal models (LMMs) can already understand photos of natural scenes and portraits, their understanding of abstract images, e.g., charts, maps, or layouts, and visual reasoning capabilities remains quite rudimentary. They often struggle with simple daily tasks, such as reading time from a clock, understanding a flowchart, or planning a route using a road map. In light of this, we design a multi-modal self-instruct, utilizing large language models and their code capabilities to synthesize massive abstract images and visual reasoning instructions across daily scenarios. Our strategy effortlessly creates a multimodal benchmark with 11,193 instructions for eight visual scenarios: charts, tables, simulated maps, dashboards, flowcharts, relation graphs, floor plans, and visual puzzles. \\textbf{This benchmark, constructed with simple lines and geometric elements, exposes the shortcomings of most advanced LMMs} like GPT-4V and Llava in abstract image understanding, spatial relations reasoning, and visual element induction. Besides, to verify the quality of our synthetic data, we fine-tune an LMM using 62,476 synthetic chart, table and road map instructions. The results demonstrate improved chart understanding and map navigation performance, and also demonstrate potential benefits for other visual reasoning tasks."}
{"Title": "DataNarrative: Automated Data-Driven Storytelling with Visualizations and Texts", "Abstract": "Data-driven storytelling is a powerful method for conveying insights by combining narrative techniques with visualizations and text. These stories integrate visual aids, such as highlighted bars and lines in charts, along with textual annotations explaining insights. However, creating such stories requires a deep understanding of the data and meticulous narrative planning, often necessitating human intervention, which can be time-consuming and mentally taxing. While Large Language Models (LLMs) excel in various NLP tasks, their ability to generate coherent and comprehensive data stories remains underexplored. In this work, we introduce a novel task for data story generation and a benchmark containing 1,449 stories from diverse sources. To address the challenges of crafting coherent data stories, we propose a multi-agent framework employing two LLM agents designed to replicate the human storytelling process: one for understanding and describing the data (Reflection), generating the outline, and narration, and another for verification at each intermediary step. While our agentic framework generally outperforms non-agentic counterparts in both model-based and human evaluations, the results also reveal unique challenges in data story generation."}
{"Title": "DEM: Distribution Edited Model for Training with Mixed Data Distributions", "Abstract": "Training with mixed data distributions is a common and important part of creating multi-task and instruction-following models. The diversity of the data distributions and cost of joint training makes the optimization procedure extremely challenging. Data mixing methods partially address this problem, albeit having a sub-optimal performance across data sources and require multiple expensive training runs. In this paper, we propose a simple and efficient alternative for better optimization of the data sources by combining models individually trained on each data source with the base model using basic element-wise vector operations. The resulting model, namely Distribution Edited Model (DEM), is cheaper than standard data mixing and outperforms strong baselines on a variety of benchmarks, yielding upto 6.2{\\%} improvement on MMLU, 11.5{\\%} on BBH, 16.1{\\%} on DROP, 6{\\%} MathQA and 9.3{\\%} on HELM with models of size 3B to 13B. Notably, DEM does not require full re-training when modifying a single data-source, thus making it very flexible and scalable for training with diverse data sources."}
{"Title": "Altogether: Image Captioning via Re-aligning Alt-text", "Abstract": "This paper focuses on creating synthetic data to improve the quality of image captions. Existing works typically have two shortcomings. First, they caption images from scratch, ignoring existing alt-text metadata, and second, lack transparency if the captioners{'} training data (e.g. GPT) is unknown. In this paper, we study a principled approach Altogether based on the key idea to edit and re-align existing alt-texts associated with the images. To generate training data, we perform human annotation where annotators start with the existing alt-text and re-align it to the image content in multiple rounds, consequently constructing captions with rich visual concepts. This differs from prior work that carries out human annotation as a one-time description task solely based on images and annotator knowledge. We train a captioner on this data that generalizes the process of re-aligning alt-texts at scale. Our results show our Altogether approach leads to richer image captions that also improve text-to-image generation and zero-shot image classification tasks."}
{"Title": "VerifyMatch: A Semi-Supervised Learning Paradigm for Natural Language Inference with Confidence-Aware MixUp", "Abstract": "While natural language inference (NLI) has emerged as a prominent task for evaluating a model{'}s capability to perform natural language understanding, creating large benchmarks for training deep learning models imposes a significant challenge since it requires extensive human annotations. To overcome this, we propose to construct pseudo-generated samples (premise-hypothesis pairs) using class-specific fine-tuned large language models (LLMs) thereby reducing the human effort and the costs in annotating large amounts of data. However, despite the impressive performance of LLMs, it is necessary to verify that the pseudo-generated labels are actually correct. Towards this goal, in this paper, we propose VerifyMatch, a semi-supervised learning (SSL) approach in which the LLM pseudo-labels guide the training of the SSL model and, at the same time, the SSL model acts as a verifier of the LLM-generated data. In our approach, we retain all pseudo-labeled samples, but to ensure unlabeled data quality, we further propose to use MixUp whenever the verifier does not agree with the LLM-generated label or when they both agree on the label but the verifier has a low confidence{---}lower than an adaptive confidence threshold. We achieve competitive accuracy compared to strong baselines for NLI datasets in low-resource settings."}
{"Title": "CaT-Bench: Benchmarking Language Model Understanding of Causal and Temporal Dependencies in Plans", "Abstract": "Understanding the abilities of LLMs to reason about natural language plans, such as instructional text and recipes, is critical to reliably using them in decision-making systems. A fundamental aspect of plans is the temporal order in which their steps need to be executed, which reflects the underlying causal dependencies between them. We introduce CaT-Bench, a benchmark of Step Order Prediction questions, which test whether a step must necessarily occur before or after another in cooking recipe plans. We use this to evaluate how well frontier LLMs understand causal and temporal dependencies. We find that SOTA LLMs are underwhelming (best zero-shot is only 0.59 in F1), and are biased towards predicting dependence more often, perhaps relying on temporal order of steps as a heuristic. While prompting for explanations and using few-shot examples improve performance, the best F1 result is only 0.73. Further, human evaluation of explanations along with answer correctness show that, on average, humans do not agree with model reasoning. Surprisingly, we also find that explaining after answering leads to better performance than normal chain-of-thought prompting, and LLM answers are not consistent across questions about the same step pairs. Overall, results show that LLMs{'} ability to detect dependence between steps has significant room for improvement."}
{"Title": "Mitigating the Impact of Reference Quality on Evaluation of Summarization Systems with Reference-Free Metrics", "Abstract": "Automatic metrics are used as proxies to evaluate abstractive summarization systems when human annotations are too expensive. To be useful, these metrics should be fine-grained, show a high correlation with human annotations, and ideally be independant of reference quality; however, most standard evaluation metrics for summarization are reference-based, and existing reference-free metrics correlates poorly with relevance, especially on summaries of longer documents. In this paper, we introduce a reference-free metric that correlates well with human evaluated relevance, while being very cheap to compute. We show that this metric can also be used along reference-based metrics to improve their robustness in low quality reference settings."}
{"Title": "An Empirical Analysis of the Writing Styles of Persona-Assigned LLMs", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Investigating the Role of Instruction Variety and Task Difficulty in Robotic Manipulation Tasks", "Abstract": "Evaluating the generalisation capabilities of multimodal models based solely on their performance on out-of-distribution data fails to capture their true robustness. This work introduces a comprehensive evaluation framework that systematically examines the role of instructions and inputs in the generalisation abilities of such models, considering architectural design, input perturbations across language and vision modalities, and increased task complexity. The proposed framework uncovers the resilience of multimodal models to extreme instruction perturbations and their vulnerability to observational changes, raising concerns about overfitting to spurious correlations. By employing this evaluation framework on current Transformer-based multimodal models for robotic manipulation tasks, we uncover limitations and suggest future advancements should focus on architectural and training innovations that better integrate multimodal inputs, enhancing a model{'}s generalisation prowess by prioritising sensitivity to input content over incidental correlations."}
{"Title": "GPT vs RETRO: Exploring the Intersection of Retrieval and Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning", "Abstract": "Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) and Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) have become popular methods for adapting large language models while minimizing compute requirements. In this paper, we apply PEFT methods (P-tuning, Adapters, and LoRA) to a modified Retrieval-Enhanced Transformer (RETRO) and a baseline GPT model across several sizes, ranging from 823 million to 48 billion parameters. We show that RETRO models outperform GPT models in zero-shot settings due to their unique pre-training process but GPT models have higher performance potential with PEFT. Additionally, our study indicates that 8B parameter models strike an optimal balance between cost and performance and P-tuning lags behind other PEFT techniques. We further provide a comparative analysis of between applying PEFT to Instruction-tuned RETRO model and base RETRO model. This work presents the first comprehensive comparison of various PEFT methods integrated with RAG, applied to both GPT and RETRO models, highlighting their relative performance."}
{"Title": "CoCoST: Automatic Complex Code Generation with Online Searching and Correctness Testing", "Abstract": "Large Language Models have revolutionized code generation ability by converting natural language descriptions into executable code. However, generating complex code within real-world scenarios remains challenging due to intricate structures, subtle bugs, understanding of advanced data types, and lack of supplementary contents. To address these challenges, we introduce the CoCoST framework, which enhances complex code generation by online searching for more information with planned queries and correctness testing for code refinement. Moreover, CoCoST serializes the complex inputs and outputs to improve comprehension and generates test cases to ensure the adaptability for real-world applications. CoCoST is validated through rigorous experiments on the DS-1000 and ClassEval datasets. Experimental results show that CoCoST substantially improves the quality of complex code generation, highlighting its potential to enhance the practicality of LLMs in generating complex code."}
{"Title": "Sequential API Function Calling Using GraphQL Schema", "Abstract": "Function calling using Large Language Models (LLMs) is an active research area that aims to empower LLMs with the ability to execute APIs to perform real-world tasks. However, sequential function calling using LLMs with interdependence between functions is still under-explored. To this end, we introduce GraphQLRestBench, a dataset consisting of natural language utterances paired with function call sequences representing real-world REST API calls with variable mapping between functions. In order to represent the response structure of the functions in the LLM prompt, we use the GraphQL schema of the REST APIs. We also introduce a custom evaluation framework for our dataset consisting of four specially designed metrics. We evaluate various open-source LLMs on our dataset using few-shot Chain-of-Thought and ReAct prompting to establish a reasonable baseline."}
{"Title": "The Illusion of Competence: Evaluating the Effect of Explanations on Users' Mental Models of Visual Question Answering Systems", "Abstract": "We examine how users perceive the limitations of an AI system when it encounters a task that it cannot perform perfectly and whether providing explanations alongside its answers aids users in constructing an appropriate mental model of the system{'}s capabilities and limitations. We employ a visual question answer and explanation task where we control the AI system{'}s limitations by manipulating the visual inputs: during inference, the system either processes full-color or grayscale images. Our goal is to determine whether participants can perceive the limitations of the system. We hypothesize that explanations will make limited AI capabilities more transparent to users. However, our results show that explanations do not have this effect. Instead of allowing users to more accurately assess the limitations of the AI system, explanations generally increase users{'} perceptions of the system{'}s competence {--} regardless of its actual performance."}
{"Title": "Re-Evaluating Evaluation for Multilingual Summarization", "Abstract": "Automatic evaluation approaches (ROUGE, BERTScore, LLM-based evaluators) have been widely used to evaluate summarization tasks. Despite the complexities of script differences and tokenization, these approaches have been indiscriminately applied to summarization across multiple languages. While previous works have argued that these approaches correlate strongly with human ratings in English, it remains unclear whether the conclusion holds for other languages. To answer this question, we construct a small-scale pilot dataset containing article-summary pairs and human ratings in English, Chinese and Indonesian. To measure the strength of summaries, our ratings are measured as head-to-head comparisons with resulting Elo scores across four dimensions. Our analysis reveals that standard metrics are unreliable measures of quality, and that these problems are exacerbated in Chinese and Indonesian. We advocate for more nuanced and careful considerations in designing a robust evaluation framework for multiple languages."}
{"Title": "Video-Text Prompting for Weakly Supervised Spatio-Temporal Video Grounding", "Abstract": "Weakly-supervised Spatio-Temporal Video Grounding(STVG) aims to localize target object tube given a text query, without densely annotated training data. Existing methods extract each candidate tube feature independently by cropping objects from video frame feature, discarding all contextual information such as position change and inter-entity relationship. In this paper, we propose Video-Text Prompting(VTP) to construct candidate feature. Instead of cropping tube region from feature map, we draw visual markers(e.g. red circle) over objects tubes as video prompts; corresponding text prompt(e.g. in red circle) is also inserted after the subject word of query text to highlight its presence. Nevertheless, each candidate feature may look similar without cropping. To address this, we further propose Contrastive VTP(CVTP) by introducing negative contrastive samples whose candidate object is erased instead of being highlighted; by comparing the difference between VTP candidate and the contrastive sample, the gap of matching score between correct candidate and the rest is enlarged. Extensive experiments and ablations are conducted on several STVG datasets and our results surpass existing weakly-supervised methods by a great margin, demonstrating the effectiveness of our proposed methods."}
{"Title": "A Fast and Sound Tagging Method for Discontinuous Named-Entity Recognition", "Abstract": "We introduce a novel tagging scheme for discontinuous named entity recognition based on an explicit description of the inner structure of discontinuous mentions. We rely on a weighted finite state automaton for both marginal and maximum a posteriori inference. As such, our method is sound in the sense that (1) well-formedness of predicted tag sequences is ensured via the automaton structure and (2) there is an unambiguous mapping between well-formed sequences of tags and (discontinuous) mentions. We evaluate our approach on three English datasets in the biomedical domain, and report comparable results to state-of-the-art while having a way simpler and faster model."}
{"Title": "Factuality of Large Language Models: A Survey", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs), especially when instruction-tuned for chat, have become part of our daily lives, freeing people from the process of searching, extracting, and integrating information from multiple sources by offering a straightforward answer to a variety of questions in a single place. Unfortunately, in many cases, LLM responses are factually incorrect, which limits their applicability in real-world scenarios. As a result, research on evaluating and improving the factuality of LLMs has attracted a lot of research attention recently. In this survey, we critically analyze existing work with the aim to identify the major challenges and their associated causes, pointing out to potential solutions for improving the factuality of LLMs, and analyzing the obstacles to automated factuality evaluation for open-ended text generation. We further offer an outlook on where future research should go."}
{"Title": "Discovering Biases in Information Retrieval Models Using Relevance Thesaurus as Global Explanation", "Abstract": "Most of the efforts in interpreting neural relevance models have been on local explanations, which explain the relevance of a document to a query. However, local explanations are not effective in predicting the model{'}s behavior on unseen texts. We aim at explaining a neural relevance model by providing lexical explanations that can be globally generalized. Specifically, we construct a relevance thesaurus containing semantically relevant query term and document term pairs, which can augment BM25 scoring functions to better approximate the neural model{'}s predictions. We propose a novel method to build a relevance thesaurus construction. Our method involves training a neural relevance model which can score the relevance for partial segments of query and documents. The trained model is used to identify relevant terms over the vocabulary space. The resulting thesaurus explanation is evaluated based on ranking effectiveness and fidelity to the targeted neural ranking model. Finally, our thesaurus reveals the existence of brand name bias in ranking models, which further supports the utility of our explanation method."}
{"Title": "Adaptable Moral Stances of Large Language Models on Sexist Content: Implications for Society and Gender Discourse", "Abstract": "This work provides an explanatory view of how LLMs can apply moral reasoning to both criticize and defend sexist language. We assessed eight large language models, all of which demonstrated the capability to provide explanations grounded in varying moral perspectives for both critiquing and endorsing views that reflect sexist assumptions. With both human and automatic evaluation, we show that all eight models produce comprehensible and contextually relevant text, which is helpful in understanding diverse views on how sexism is perceived. Also, through analysis of moral foundations cited by LLMs in their arguments, we uncover the diverse ideological perspectives in models{'} outputs, with some models aligning more with progressive or conservative views on gender roles and sexism.Based on our observations, we caution against the potential misuse of LLMs to justify sexist language. We also highlight that LLMs can serve as tools for understanding the roots of sexist beliefs and designing well-informed interventions. Given this dual capacity, it is crucial to monitor LLMs and design safety mechanisms for their use in applications that involve sensitive societal topics, such as sexism."}
{"Title": "DISCERN: Decoding Systematic Errors in Natural Language for Text Classifiers", "Abstract": "Despite their high predictive accuracies, current machine learning systems often exhibit systematic biases stemming from annotation artifacts or insufficient support for certain classes in the dataset. Recent work proposes automatic methods for identifying and explaining systematic biases using keywords. We introduce DISCERN, a framework for interpreting systematic biases in text classifiers using language explanations. DISCERN iteratively generates precise natural language descriptions of systematic errors by employing an interactive loop between two large language models. Finally, we use the descriptions to improve classifiers by augmenting classifier training sets with synthetically generated instances or annotated examples via active learning. On three text-classification datasets, we demonstrate that language explanations from our framework induce consistent performance improvements that go beyond what is achievable with exemplars of systematic bias. Finally, in human evaluations, we show that users can interpret systematic biases more effectively (by over 25{\\%} relative) and efficiently when described through language explanations as opposed to cluster exemplars."}
{"Title": "IntCoOp: Interpretability-Aware Vision-Language Prompt Tuning", "Abstract": "Image-text contrastive models such as CLIP learn transferable and robust representations for zero-shot transfer to a variety of downstream tasks. However, to obtain strong downstream performances, prompts need to be carefully curated, which can be a tedious engineering task. To address the issue of manual prompt engineering, prompt-tuning is used where a set of contextual vectors are learned by leveraging information from the training data. Despite their effectiveness, existing prompt-tuning frameworks often lack interpretability, thus limiting their ability to understand the compositional nature of images. In this work, we first identify that incorporating compositional attributes (e.g., a {``}green{''} tree frog) in the design of manual prompts can significantly enhance image-text alignment scores. Building upon this observation, we propose a novel and interpretable prompt-tuning method named IntCoOp, which learns to jointly align attribute-level inductive biases and class embeddings during prompt-tuning. To assess the effectiveness of our approach, we evaluate IntCoOp across two representative tasks in a few-shot learning setup: generalization to novel classes, and unseen domain shifts. Through extensive experiments across 10 downstream datasets on CLIP, we find that introducing attribute-level inductive biases leads to superior performance against state-of-art prompt tuning frameworks. Notably, in a 16-shot setup, IntCoOp improves CoOp by 7.35{\\%} in average performance across 10 diverse datasets."}
{"Title": "Scope-enhanced Compositional Semantic Parsing for DRT", "Abstract": "Discourse Representation Theory (DRT) distinguishes itself from other semantic representation frameworks by its ability to model complex semantic and discourse phenomena through structural nesting and variable binding. While seq2seq models hold the state of the art on DRT parsing, their accuracy degrades with the complexity of the sentence, and they sometimes struggle to produce well-formed DRT representations. We introduce the AMS parser, a compositional, neurosymbolic semantic parser for DRT. It rests on a novel mechanism for predicting quantifier scope. We show that the AMS parser reliably produces well-formed outputs and performs well on DRT parsing, especially on complex sentences."}
{"Title": "The Generation Gap: Exploring Age Bias in the Value Systems of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "We explore the alignment of values in Large Language Models (LLMs) with specific age groups, leveraging data from the World Value Survey across thirteen categories. Through a diverse set of prompts tailored to ensure response robustness, we find a general inclination of LLM values towards younger demographics, especially when compared to the US population. Although a general inclination can be observed, we also found that this inclination toward younger groups can be different across different value categories. Additionally, we explore the impact of incorporating age identity information in prompts and observe challenges in mitigating value discrepancies with different age cohorts. Our findings highlight the age bias in LLMs and provide insights for future work. Materials for our analysis will be available via \\url{https://github.com/anonymous}"}
{"Title": "TempoFormer: A Transformer for Temporally-aware Representations in Change Detection", "Abstract": "Dynamic representation learning plays a pivotal role in understanding the evolution of linguistic content over time. On this front both context and time dynamics as well as their interplay are of prime importance. Current approaches model context via pre-trained representations, which are typically temporally agnostic. Previous work on modelling context and temporal dynamics has used recurrent methods, which are slow and prone to overfitting. Here we introduce TempoFormer, the first task-agnostic transformer-based and temporally-aware model for dynamic representation learning. Our approach is jointly trained on inter and intra context dynamics and introduces a novel temporal variation of rotary positional embeddings. The architecture is flexible and can be used as the temporal representation foundation of other models or applied to different transformer-based architectures. We show new SOTA performance on three different real-time change detection tasks."}
{"Title": "Pron vs Prompt: Can Large Language Models already Challenge a World-Class Fiction Author at Creative Text Writing?", "Abstract": "Are LLMs ready to compete in creative writing skills with a top (rather than average) novelist? To provide an initial answer for this question, we have carried out a contest between Patricio Pron (an awarded novelist, considered one of the best of his generation) and GPT-4 (one of the top performing LLMs), in the spirit of AI-human duels such as DeepBlue vs Kasparov and AlphaGo vs Lee Sidol. We asked Pron and GPT-4 to provide thirty titles each, and then to write short stories for both their titles and their opponent{'}s. Then, we prepared an evaluation rubric inspired by Boden{'}s definition of creativity, and we collected several detailed expert assessments of the texts, provided by literature critics and scholars. The results of our experimentation indicate that LLMs are still far from challenging a top human creative writer. We also observed that GPT-4 writes more creatively using Pron{'}s titles than its own titles (which is an indication of the potential for human-machine co-creation). Additionally, we found that GPT-4 has a more creative writing style in English than in Spanish."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Diversity in Automatic Poetry Generation", "Abstract": "Natural Language Generation (NLG), and more generally generative AI, are among the currently most impactful research fields. Creative NLG, such as automatic poetry generation, is a fascinating niche in this area. While most previous research has focused on forms of the Turing test when evaluating automatic poetry generation {---} can humans distinguish between automatic and human generated poetry {---} we evaluate the diversity of automatically generated poetry (with a focus on quatrains), by comparing distributions of generated poetry to distributions of human poetry along structural, lexical, semantic and stylistic dimensions, assessing different model types (word vs. character-level, general purpose LLMs vs. poetry-specific models), including the very recent LLaMA3-8B, and types of fine-tuning (conditioned vs. unconditioned). We find that current automatic poetry systems are considerably underdiverse along multiple dimensions {---} they often do not rhyme sufficiently, are semantically too uniform and even do not match the length distribution of human poetry. Our experiments reveal, however, that style-conditioning and character-level modeling clearly increases diversity across virtually all dimensions we explore. Our identified limitations may serve as the basis for more genuinely diverse future poetry generation models."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Short-Term Temporal Fluctuations of Social Biases in Social Media Data and Masked Language Models", "Abstract": "Social biases such as gender or racial biases have been reported in language models (LMs), including Masked Language Models (MLMs). Given that MLMs are continuously trained with increasing amounts of additional data collected over time, an important yet unanswered question is how the social biases encoded with MLMs vary over time. In particular, the number of social media users continues to grow at an exponential rate, and it is a valid concern for the MLMs trained specifically on social media data whether their social biases (if any) would also amplify over time. To empirically analyse this problem, we use a series of MLMs pretrained on chronologically ordered temporal snapshots of corpora. Our analysis reveals that, although social biases are present in all MLMs, most types of social bias remain relatively stable over time (with a few exceptions). To further understand the mechanisms that influence social biases in MLMs, we analyse the temporal corpora used to train the MLMs. Our findings show that some demographic groups, such as male, obtain higher preference over the other, such as female on the training corpora constantly."}
{"Title": "Delving into Qualitative Implications of Synthetic Data for Hate Speech Detection", "Abstract": "The use of synthetic data for training models for a variety of NLP tasks is now widespread. However, previous work reports mixed results with regards to its effectiveness on highly subjective tasks such as hate speech detection. In this paper, we present an in-depth qualitative analysis of the potential and specific pitfalls of synthetic data for hate speech detection in English, with 3,500 manually annotated examples. We show that, across different models, synthetic data created through paraphrasing gold texts can improve out-of-distribution robustness from a computational standpoint. However, this comes at a cost: synthetic data fails to reliably reflect the characteristics of real-world data on a number of linguistic dimensions, it results in drastically different class distributions, and it heavily reduces the representation of both specific identity groups and intersectional hate."}
{"Title": "Grounding Language in Multi-Perspective Referential Communication", "Abstract": "We introduce a task and dataset for referring expression generation and comprehension in multi-agent embodied environments.In this task, two agents in a shared scene must take into account one another{'}s visual perspective, which may be different from their own, to both produce and understand references to objects in a scene and the spatial relations between them.We collect a dataset of 2,970 human-written referring expressions, each paired with human comprehension judgments, and evaluate the performance of automated models as speakers and listeners paired with human partners, finding that model performance in both reference generation and comprehension lags behind that of pairs of human agents.Finally, we experiment training an open-weight speaker model with evidence of communicative success when paired with a listener, resulting in an improvement from 58.9 to 69.3{\\%} in communicative success and even outperforming the strongest proprietary model."}
{"Title": "Threshold-driven Pruning with Segmented Maximum Term Weights for Approximate Cluster-based Sparse Retrieval", "Abstract": "This paper revisits dynamic pruning through rank score thresholding in cluster-based sparse retrieval to skip the index partially at cluster and document levels during inference. It proposes a two-parameter pruning control scheme called ASC with a probabilistic guarantee on rank-safeness competitiveness. ASC uses cluster-level maximum weight segmentation to improve accuracy of rank score bound estimation and threshold-driven pruning, and is targeted for speeding up retrieval applications requiring high relevance competitiveness. The experiments with MS MARCO and BEIR show that ASC improves the accuracy and safeness of pruning for better relevance while delivering a low latency on a single-threaded CPU."}
{"Title": "Error Analysis of Multilingual Language Models in Machine Translation: A Case Study of English-Amharic Translation", "Abstract": "Multilingual large language models (mLLMs) have significantly advanced machine translation, yet challenges remain for low-resource languages like Amharic. This study evaluates the performance of state-of-the-art mLLMs, specifically NLLB-200 (NLLB3.3, NLLB1.3 Distilled1.3, NLB600) and M2M (M2M1.2B, M2M418), in English-Amharic bidirectional translation using the Lesan AI dataset. We employed both automatic and human evaluation methods to analyze translation errors. Automatic evaluation used BLEU, METEOR, chrF, and TER metrics, while human evaluation assessed translation quality at both word and sentence levels. Sentence-level accuracy was rated by annotators on a scale from 0 to 5, and word-level quality was evaluated using Multidimensional Quality Metrics. Our findings indicate that the NLLB3.3B model consistently outperformed other mLLMs across all evaluation methods. Common error included mistranslation, omission, untranslated segments, and additions, with mistranslation being particularly common. Punctuation and spelling errors were rare in our experiment."}
{"Title": "MIPD: Exploring Manipulation and Intention In a Novel Corpus of Polish Disinformation", "Abstract": "This study presents a novel corpus of 15,356 Polish web articles, including articles identified as containing disinformation. Our dataset enables a multifaceted understanding of disinformation. We present a distinctive multilayered methodology for annotating disinformation in texts. What sets our corpus apart is its focus on uncovering hidden intent and manipulation in disinformative content. A team of experts annotated each article with multiple labels indicating both disinformation creators{'} intents and the manipulation techniques employed. Additionally, we set new baselines for binary disinformation detection and two multiclass multilabel classification tasks: manipulation techniques and intention types classification."}
{"Title": "Unsupervised Discrete Representations of American Sign Language", "Abstract": "Many modalities are naturally represented as continuous signals, making it difficult to use them with models that expect discrete units, such as LLMs. In this paper, we explore the use of audio compression techniques for the discrete representation of the gestures used in sign language. We train a tokenizer for American Sign Language (ASL) fingerspelling, which discretizes sequences of fingerspelling signs into tokens. We also propose a loss function to improve the interpretability of these tokens such that they preserve both the semantic and the visual information of the signal. We show that the proposed method improves the performance of the discretized sequence on downstream tasks."}
{"Title": "Perceptions to Beliefs: Exploring Precursory Inferences for Theory of Mind in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "While humans naturally develop theory of mind (ToM), the capability to understand other people{'}s mental states and beliefs, state-of-the-art large language models (LLMs) underperform on simple ToM benchmarks. We posit that we can extend our understanding of LLMs{'} ToM abilities by evaluating key human ToM precursors$-$perception inference and perception-to-belief inference$-$in LLMs. We introduce two datasets, Percept-ToMi and Percept-FANToM, to evaluate these precursory inferences for ToM in LLMs by annotating characters{'} perceptions on ToMi and FANToM, respectively.Our evaluation of eight state-of-the-art LLMs reveals that the models generally perform well in perception inference while exhibiting limited capability in perception-to-belief inference (e.g., lack of inhibitory control).Based on these results, we present PercepToM, a novel ToM method leveraging LLMs{'} strong perception inference capability while supplementing their limited perception-to-belief inference. Experimental results demonstrate that PercepToM significantly enhances LLM{'}s performance, especially in false belief scenarios."}
{"Title": "Towards Enhancing Coherence in Extractive Summarization: Dataset and Experiments with LLMs", "Abstract": "Extractive summarization plays a pivotal role in natural language processing due to its wide-range applications in summarizing diverse content efficiently, while also being faithful to the original content. Despite significant advancement achieved in extractive summarization by Large Language Models (LLMs), these summaries frequently exhibit incoherence. An important aspect of the coherent summary is its readability for intended users. Although there have been many datasets and benchmarks proposed for creating coherent extractive summaries, none of them currently incorporate user intent to improve coherence in extractive summarization. Motivated by this, we propose a systematically created human-annotated dataset consisting of coherent summaries for five publicly available datasets and natural language user feedback, offering valuable insights into how to improve coherence in extractive summaries. We utilize this dataset for aligning LLMs through supervised fine-tuning with natural language human feedback to enhance the coherence of their generated summaries. Preliminary experiments with Falcon-40B and Llama-2-13B show significant performance improvements ({\\textasciitilde}10{\\%} Rouge-L) in terms of producing coherent summaries. We further utilize human feedback to benchmark results over instruction-tuned models such as FLAN-T5 which resulted in several interesting findings."}
{"Title": "Jump Starting Bandits with LLM-Generated Prior Knowledge", "Abstract": "We present substantial evidence demonstrating the benefits of integrating Large Language Models (LLMs) with a Contextual Multi-Armed Bandit framework. Contextual bandits have been widely used in recommendation systems to generate personalized suggestions based on user-specific contexts. We show that LLMs, pre-trained on extensive corpora rich in human knowledge and preferences, can simulate human behaviours well enough to jump-start contextual multi-armed bandits to reduce online learning regret. We propose an initialization algorithm for contextual bandits by prompting LLMs to produce a pre-training dataset of approximate human preferences for the bandit. This significantly reduces online learning regret and data-gathering costs for training such models. Our approach is validated empirically through two sets of experiments with different bandit setups: one which utilizes LLMs to serve as an oracle and a real-world experiment utilizing data from a conjoint survey experiment."}
{"Title": "Adaptation Odyssey in LLMs: Why Does Additional Pretraining Sometimes Fail to Improve?", "Abstract": "In the last decade, the generalization and adaptation abilities of deep learning models were typically evaluated on fixed training and test distributions. Contrary to traditional deep learning, large language models (LLMs) are (i) even more overparameterized, (ii) trained on unlabeled text corpora curated from the Internet with minimal human intervention, and (iii) trained in an online fashion. These stark contrasts prevent researchers from transferring lessons learned on model generalization and adaptation in deep learning contexts to LLMs.To this end, our short paper introduces empirical observations that aim to shed light on further training of already pretrained language models. Specifically, we demonstrate that training a model on a text domain could degrade its perplexity on the test portion of the same domain. We observe with our subsequent analysis that the performance degradation is positively correlated with the similarity between the additional and the original pretraining dataset of the LLM. Our further token-level perplexity analysis reveals that the perplexity degradation is due to a handful of tokens that are not informative about the domain. We hope these findings will guide us in determining when to adapt a model vs when to rely on its foundational capabilities."}
{"Title": "Not All Contexts Are Equal: Teaching LLMs Credibility-aware Generation", "Abstract": "The rapid development of large language models has led to the widespread adoption of Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), which integrates external knowledge to alleviate knowledge bottlenecks and mitigate hallucinations. However, the existing RAG paradigm inevitably suffers from the impact of flawed information introduced during the retrieval phrase, thereby diminishing the reliability and correctness of the generated outcomes. In this paper, we propose Credibility-aware Generation (CAG), a universally applicable framework designed to mitigate the impact of flawed information in RAG. At its core, CAG aims to equip models with the ability to discern and process information based on its credibility. To this end, we propose an innovative data transformation framework that generates data based on credibility, thereby effectively endowing models with the capability of CAG. Furthermore, to accurately evaluate the models{'} capabilities of CAG, we construct a comprehensive benchmark covering three critical real-world scenarios. Experimental results demonstrate that our model can effectively understand and employ credibility for generation, significantly outperform other models with retrieval augmentation, and exhibit robustness despite the increasing noise in the context."}
{"Title": "Virtual Personas for Language Models via an Anthology of Backstories", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are trained from vast repositories of text authored by millions of distinct authors, reflecting an enormous diversity of human traits. While these models bear the potential to be used as approximations of human subjects in behavioral studies, prior efforts have been limited in steering model responses to match individual human users. In this work, we introduce Anthology, a method for conditioning LLMs to particular virtual personas by harnessing open-ended life narratives, which we refer to as backstories. We show that our methodology enhances the consistency and reliability of experimental outcomes while ensuring better representation of diverse sub-populations. Across three nationally representative human surveys conducted as part of Pew Research Center{'}s American Trends Panel (ATP), we demonstrate that Anthology achieves up to 18{\\%} improvement in matching the response distributions of human respondents and 27{\\%} improvement in consistency metrics."}
{"Title": "Step-by-Step Reasoning to Solve Grid Puzzles: Where do LLMs Falter?", "Abstract": "Solving grid puzzles involves a significant amount of logical reasoning. Hence, it is a good domain to evaluate reasoning capability of a model which can then guide us to improve the reasoning ability of models. However, most existing works evaluate only the final predicted answer of a puzzle, without delving into an in-depth analysis of the LLMs{'} reasoning chains (such as where they falter) or providing any finer metrics to evaluate them. Since LLMs may rely on simple heuristics or artifacts to predict the final answer, it is crucial to evaluate the generated reasoning chain beyond overall correctness measures, for accurately evaluating the reasoning abilities of LLMs. To this end, we first develop GridPuzzle, an evaluation dataset comprising of 274 grid-based puzzles with different complexities. Second, we propose a new error taxonomy derived from manual analysis of reasoning chains from LLMs including GPT-4, Claude-3, Gemini, Mistral, and Llama-2. Then, we develop a LLM-based framework for large-scale subjective evaluation (i.e., identifying errors) and an objective metric, PuzzleEval, to evaluate the correctness of reasoning chains. Evaluating reasoning chains from LLMs leads to several interesting findings. We further show that existing prompting methods used for enhancing models{'} reasoning abilities do not improve performance on GridPuzzle. This highlights the importance of understanding fine-grained errors and presents a challenge for future research to enhance LLMs{'} puzzle-solving abilities by developing methods that address these errors."}
{"Title": "Reasoning in Token Economies: Budget-Aware Evaluation of LLM Reasoning Strategies", "Abstract": "A diverse array of reasoning strategies has been proposed to elicit the capabilities of large language models. However, in this paper, we point out that traditional evaluations which focus solely on performance metrics miss a key factor: the increased effectiveness due to additional compute. By overlooking this aspect, a skewed view of strategy efficiency is often presented. This paper introduces a framework that incorporates the compute budget into the evaluation, providing a more informative comparison that takes into account both performance metrics and computational cost. In this budget-aware perspective, we find that complex reasoning strategies often don{'}t surpass simpler baselines purely due to algorithmic ingenuity, but rather due to the larger computational resources allocated. When we provide a simple baseline like chain-of-thought self-consistency with comparable compute resources, it frequently outperforms reasoning strategies proposed in the literature. In this scale-aware perspective, we find that unlike self-consistency, certain strategies such as multi-agent debate or Reflexion can become worse if more compute budget is utilized."}
{"Title": "The Empirical Variability of Narrative Perceptions of Social Media Texts", "Abstract": "Most NLP work on narrative detection has focused on prescriptive definitions of stories crafted by researchers, leaving open the questions: how do crowd workers perceive texts to be a story, and why? We investigate this by building StoryPerceptions, a dataset of 2,496 perceptions of storytelling in 502 social media texts from 255 crowd workers, including categorical labels along with free-text storytelling rationales, authorial intent, and more. We construct a fine-grained bottom-up taxonomy of crowd workers{'} varied and nuanced perceptions of storytelling by open-coding their free-text rationales. Through comparative analyses at the label and code level, we illuminate patterns of disagreement among crowd workers and across other annotation contexts, including prescriptive labeling from researchers and LLM-based predictions. Notably, plot complexity, references to generalized or abstract actions, and holistic aesthetic judgments (such as a sense of cohesion) are especially important in disagreements. Our empirical findings broaden understanding of the types, relative importance, and contentiousness of features relevant to narrative detection, highlighting opportunities for future work on reader-contextualized models of narrative reception."}
{"Title": "Which questions should I answer? Salience Prediction of Inquisitive Questions", "Abstract": "Inquisitive questions {---} open-ended, curiosity-driven questions people ask as they read {---} are an integral part of discourse processing and comprehension. Recent work in NLP has taken advantage of question generation capabilities of LLMs to enhance a wide range of applications. But the space of inquisitive questions is vast: many questions can be evoked from a given context. So which of those should be prioritized to find answers? Linguistic theories, unfortunately, have not yet provided an answer to this question. This paper presents QSalience, a salience predictor of inquisitive questions. QSalience is instruction-tuned over our dataset of linguist-annotated salience scores of 1,766 (context, question) pairs. A question scores high on salience if answering it would greatly enhance the understanding of the text. We show that highly salient questions are empirically more likely to be answered in the same article, bridging potential questions with Questions Under Discussion. We further validate our findings by showing that answering salient questions is an indicator of summarization quality in news."}
{"Title": "Revealing Personality Traits: A New Benchmark Dataset for Explainable Personality Recognition on Dialogues", "Abstract": "Personality recognition aims to identify the personality traits implied in user data such as dialogues and social media posts. Current research predominantly treats personality recognition as a classification task, failing to reveal the supporting evidence for the recognized personality. In this paper, we propose a novel task named Explainable Personality Recognition, aiming to reveal the reasoning process as supporting evidence of the personality trait. Inspired by personality theories, personality traits are made up of stable patterns of personality state, where the states are short-term characteristic patterns of thoughts, feelings, and behaviors in a concrete situation at a specific moment in time. We propose an explainable personality recognition framework called Chain-of-Personality-Evidence (CoPE), which involves a reasoning process from specific contexts to short-term personality states to long-term personality traits. Furthermore, based on the CoPE framework, we construct an explainable personality recognition dataset from dialogues, PersonalityEvd. We introduce two explainable personality state recognition and explainable personality trait recognition tasks, which require models to recognize the personality state and trait labels and their corresponding support evidence. Our extensive experiments based on Large Language Models on the two tasks show that revealing personality traits is very challenging and we present some insights for future research. We will release our dataset and source code to facilitate further studies in this direction."}
{"Title": "Continual Test-time Adaptation for End-to-end Speech Recognition on Noisy Speech", "Abstract": "Deep Learning-based end-to-end Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) has made significant strides but still struggles with performance on out-of-domain samples due to domain shifts in real-world scenarios. Test-Time Adaptation (TTA) methods address this issue by adapting models using test samples at inference time. However, current ASR TTA methods have largely focused on non-continual TTA, which limits cross-sample knowledge learning compared to continual TTA. In this work, we first propose a Fast-slow TTA framework for ASR that leverages the advantage of continual and non-continual TTA. Following this framework, we introduce Dynamic SUTA (DSUTA), an entropy-minimization-based continual TTA method for ASR. To enhance DSUTA{'}s robustness for time-varying data, we design a dynamic reset strategy to automatically detect domain shifts and reset the model, making it more effective at handling multi-domain data. Our method demonstrates superior performance on various noisy ASR datasets, outperforming both non-continual and continual TTA baselines while maintaining robustness to domain changes without requiring domain boundary information."}
{"Title": "Whiteboard-of-Thought: Thinking Step-by-Step Across Modalities", "Abstract": "When presented with questions involving visual thinking, humans naturally switch reasoning modalities, often forming mental images or drawing visual aids. Large language models have shown promising results in arithmetic and symbolic reasoning by expressing intermediate reasoning in text as a chain of thought, yet struggle to extend this capability to answer text queries that are easily solved by visual reasoning, even with extensive multimodal pretraining. We introduce a simple method, \\textit{whiteboard-of-thought} prompting, to unlock the visual reasoning capabilities of multimodal large language models across modalities. Whiteboard-of-thought prompting provides multimodal large language models with a metaphorical {`}whiteboard{'} to draw out reasoning steps as images, then returns these images back to the model for further processing. We find this can be accomplished with no demonstrations or specialized modules, instead leveraging models{'} existing ability to write code with libraries such as Matplotlib and Turtle. This simple approach shows state-of-the-art results on four difficult natural language tasks that involve visual and spatial reasoning. We identify multiple settings where GPT-4o using chain-of-thought fails dramatically, including more than one where it achieves 0{\\%} accuracy, while whiteboard-of-thought enables up to 92{\\%} accuracy in these same settings. We present a detailed exploration of where the technique succeeds as well as its sources of error."}
{"Title": "CodeJudge: Evaluating Code Generation with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown promising performance in code generation. However, how to reliably evaluate code generated by LLMs remains an unresolved problem. This paper presents CodeJudge, a code evaluation framework that leverages LLMs to evaluate the semantic correctness of generated code without the need for test cases. We investigate different ways to guide the LLM in performing {``}slow thinking{''} to arrive at an in-depth and reliable evaluation. We experimented with four LLMs as evaluators on four code generation datasets and five programming languages. The results show that CodeJudge significantly outperformed existing methods in most settings. Furthermore, compared with a SOTA GPT-3.5-based code evaluation method, CodeJudge achieved better results even when using a much smaller model, Llama-3-8B-Instruct. Our code and datasets are available on GitHub https://github.com/VichyTong/CodeJudge."}
{"Title": "Self-Training Large Language and Vision Assistant for Medical Question Answering", "Abstract": "Large Vision-Language Models (LVLMs) have shown significant potential in assisting medical diagnosis by leveraging extensive biomedical datasets. However, the advancement of medical image understanding and reasoning critically depends on building high-quality visual instruction data, which is costly and labor-intensive to obtain, particularly in the medical domain. To mitigate this data-starving issue, we introduce Self-Training Large Language and Vision Assistant for Medical (STLLaVA-Med). The proposed method is designed to train a policy model (an LVLM) capable of auto-generating medical visual instruction data to improve data efficiency, guided through Direct Preference Optimization (DPO). Specifically, a more powerful and larger LVLM (e.g., GPT-4o) is involved as a biomedical expert to oversee the DPO fine-tuning process on the auto-generated data, encouraging the policy model to align efficiently with human preferences. We validate the efficacy and data efficiency of STLLaVA-Med across three major medical Visual Question Answering (VQA) benchmarks, demonstrating competitive zero-shot performance with the utilization of only 9{\\%} of the medical data."}
{"Title": "SYNFAC-EDIT: Synthetic Imitation Edit Feedback for Factual Alignment in Clinical Summarization", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT {\\&} Llama have demonstrated significant achievements in summarization tasks but struggle with factual inaccuracies, a critical issue in clinical NLP applications where errors could lead to serious consequences. To counter the high costs and limited availability of expert-annotated data for factual alignment, this study introduces an innovative pipeline that utilizes {\\textgreater}100B parameter GPT variants like GPT-3.5 {\\&} GPT-4 to act as synthetic experts to generate high-quality synthetics feedback aimed at enhancing factual consistency in clinical note summarization. Our research primarily focuses on edit feedback generated by these synthetic feedback experts without additional human annotations, mirroring and optimizing the practical scenario in which medical professionals refine AI system outputs. Although such 100B+ parameter GPT variants have proven to demonstrate expertise in various clinical NLP tasks, such as the Medical Licensing Examination, there is scant research on their capacity to act as synthetic feedback experts and deliver expert-level edit feedback for improving the generation quality of weaker ({\\textless}10B parameter) LLMs like GPT-2 (1.5B) {\\&} Llama 2 (7B) in clinical domain. So in this work, we leverage 100B+ GPT variants to act as synthetic feedback experts offering expert-level edit feedback, that is used to reduce hallucinations and align weaker ({\\textless}10B parameter) LLMs with medical facts using two distinct alignment algorithms (DPO {\\&} SALT), endeavoring to narrow the divide between AI-generated content and factual accuracy. This highlights the substantial potential of LLM-based synthetic edits in enhancing the alignment of clinical factuality."}
{"Title": "Defending Jailbreak Prompts via In-Context Adversarial Game", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate remarkable capabilities across diverse applications. However, concerns regarding their security, particularly the vulnerability to jailbreak attacks, persist. Drawing inspiration from adversarial training in deep learning and LLM agent learning processes, we introduce the In-Context Adversarial Game (ICAG) for defending against jailbreaks without the need for fine-tuning. ICAG leverages agent learning to conduct an adversarial game, aiming to dynamically extend knowledge to defend against jailbreaks. Unlike traditional methods that rely on static datasets, ICAG employs an iterative process to enhance both the defense and attack agents. This continuous improvement process strengthens defenses against newly generated jailbreak prompts. Our empirical studies affirm ICAG{'}s efficacy, where LLMs safeguarded by ICAG exhibit significantly reduced jailbreak success rates across various attack scenarios. Moreover, ICAG demonstrates remarkable transferability to other LLMs, indicating its potential as a versatile defense mechanism. The code is available at https://github.com/YujunZhou/In-Context-Adversarial-Game."}
{"Title": "Detecting Online Community Practices with Large Language Models: A Case Study of Pro-Ukrainian Publics on Twitter", "Abstract": "Communities on social media display distinct patterns of linguistic expression and behaviour, collectively referred to as practices. These practices can be traced in textual exchanges, and reflect the intentions, knowledge, values, and norms of users and communities. This paper introduces a comprehensive methodological workflow for computational identification of such practices within social media texts. By focusing on supporters of Ukraine during the Russia-Ukraine war in (1) the activist collective NAFO and (2) the Eurovision Twitter community, we present a gold-standard data set capturing their unique practices. Using this corpus, we perform practice prediction experiments with both open-source baseline models and OpenAI{'}s large language models (LLMs). Our results demonstrate that closed-source models, especially GPT-4, achieve superior performance, particularly with prompts that incorporate salient features of practices, or utilize Chain-of-Thought prompting. This study provides a detailed error analysis and offers valuable insights into improving the precision of practice identification, thereby supporting context-sensitive moderation and advancing the understanding of online community dynamics."}
{"Title": "Multilingual Topic Classification in X: Dataset and Analysis", "Abstract": "In the dynamic realm of social media, diverse topics are discussed daily, transcending linguistic boundaries. However, the complexities of understanding and categorising this content across various languages remain an important challenge with traditional techniques like topic modelling often struggling to accommodate this multilingual diversity. In this paper, we introduce X-Topic, a multilingual dataset featuring content in four distinct languages (English, Spanish, Japanese, and Greek), crafted for the purpose of tweet topic classification. Our dataset includes a wide range of topics, tailored for social media content, making it a valuable resource for scientists and professionals working on cross-linguistic analysis, the development of robust multilingual models, and computational scientists studying online dialogue. Finally, we leverage X-Topic to perform a comprehensive cross-linguistic and multilingual analysis, and compare the capabilities of current general- and domain-specific language models."}
{"Title": "MT-Eval: A Multi-Turn Capabilities Evaluation Benchmark for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly used for complex multi-turn conversations across diverse real-world applications. However, existing benchmarks mainly focus on single-turn evaluations, overlooking the models{'} capabilities in multi-turn interactions. To address this gap, we introduce , a comprehensive benchmark to evaluate the multi-turn conversational abilities of LLMs. By analyzing human-LLM conversations, we categorize interaction patterns into four types: recollection, expansion, refinement, and follow-up. We construct multi-turn queries for each category either by augmenting existing datasets or creating new examples using GPT-4 with a human-in-the-loop process to avoid data leakage. To study the factors impacting multi-turn abilities, we create single-turn versions of the 1170 multi-turn queries and compare performance. Our evaluation of 10 well-known LLMs shows that while closed-source models generally surpass open-source ones, certain open-source models exceed GPT-3.5-Turbo in specific tasks. We observe significant performance degradation in multi-turn settings compared to single-turn settings in most models, which is not correlated with the models{'} fundamental capabilities. Moreover, we identify the distance to relevant content and susceptibility to error propagation as the key factors influencing multi-turn performance."}
{"Title": "Updating CLIP to Prefer Descriptions Over Captions", "Abstract": "Although CLIPScore is a powerful generic metric that captures the similarity between a text and an image, it fails to distinguish between a caption that is meant to complement the information in an image and a description that is meant to replace an image entirely, e.g., for accessibility. We address this shortcoming by updating the CLIP model with the Concadia dataset to assign higher scores to descriptions than captions using parameter efficient fine-tuning and a loss objective derived from work on causal interpretability. This model correlates with the judgements of blind and low-vision people while preserving transfer capabilities and has interpretable structure that sheds light on the caption{--}description distinction."}
{"Title": "CmdCaliper: A Semantic-Aware Command-Line Embedding Model and Dataset for Security Research", "Abstract": "This research addresses command-line embedding in cybersecurity, a field obstructed by the lack of comprehensive datasets due to privacy and regulation concerns. We propose the first dataset of similar command lines, named CyPHER, for training and unbiased evaluation. The training set is generated using a set of large language models (LLMs) comprising 28,520 similar command-line pairs. Our testing dataset consists of 2,807 similar command-line pairs sourced from authentic command-line data.In addition, we propose a command-line embedding model named CmdCaliper, enabling the computation of semantic similarity with command lines. Performance evaluations demonstrate that the smallest version of CmdCaliper (30 million parameters) suppresses state-of-the-art (SOTA) sentence embedding models with ten times more parameters across various tasks (e.g., malicious command-line detection and similar command-line retrieval).Our study explores the feasibility of data generation using LLMs in the cybersecurity domain. Furthermore, we release our proposed command-line dataset, embedding models{'} weights and all program codes to the public. This advancement paves the way for more effective command-line embedding for future researchers."}
{"Title": "Back to School: Translation Using Grammar Books", "Abstract": "Machine translation systems for high resource languages perform exceptionally well and produce high quality translations. Unfortunately, the vast majority of languages are not considered high resource and lack the quantity of parallel sentences needed to train such systems. These under-represented languages are not without resources, however, and bilingual dictionaries and grammar books are available as linguistic reference material. With current large language models (LLMs) supporting near book-length contexts, we can begin to use the available material to ensure advancements are shared among all of the world{'}s languages. In this paper, we demonstrate incorporating grammar books in the prompt of GPT-4 to improve machine translation and evaluate the performance on 16 topologically diverse low-resource languages, using a combination of reference material to show that the machine translation performance of LLMs can be improved using this method."}
{"Title": "VIEWS: Entity-Aware News Video Captioning", "Abstract": "Existing popular video captioning benchmarks and models often produce generic captions for videos that lack specific identification of individuals, locations, or organizations (named entities). However, in the case of news videos, the setting is more demanding, requiring the inclusion of such named entities for meaningful summarization. Therefore, we introduce the task of directly summarizing news videos into captions that are entity-aware. To facilitate research in this area, we have collected a large-scale dataset named VIEWS (VIdeo NEWS). Within this task, we face challenges inherent to recognizing named entities and navigating diverse, dynamic contexts, all while relying solely on visual cues. To address these challenges, we propose a model-agnostic approach that enriches visual information extracted from videos with context sourced from external knowledge, enabling the generation of entity-aware captions. We validate the effectiveness of our approach across three video captioning models. Additionally, we conduct a critical analysis of our methodology to gain insights into the complexity of the task, the challenges it presents, and potential avenues for future research."}
{"Title": "Towards Aligning Language Models with Textual Feedback", "Abstract": "We present ALT (ALignment with Textual feedback), an approach that aligns language models with user preferences expressed in text. We argue that text offers greater expressiveness, enabling users to provide richer feedback than simple comparative preferences and this richer feedback can lead to more efficient and effective alignment. ALT aligns the model by conditioning its generation on the textual feedback. Our method relies solely on language modeling techniques and requires minimal hyper-parameter tuning, though it still presents the main benefit of RL-based algorithms and can effectively learn from textual feedback. We explore the efficacy and efficiency of textual feedback across different tasks such as toxicity reduction, summarization, and dialog response. We find that ALT outperforms PPO for the task of toxicity reduction while being able to match its performance on summarization with only 20{\\%} of the samples. We also explore how ALT can be used with feedback provided by an existing LLM."}
{"Title": "AMPO: Automatic Multi-Branched Prompt Optimization", "Abstract": "Prompt engineering is very important to enhance the performance of large language models (LLMs). When dealing with complex issues, prompt engineers tend to distill multiple patterns from examples and inject relevant solutions to optimize the prompts, achieving satisfying results. However, existing automatic prompt optimization techniques are only limited to producing single flow instructions, struggling with handling diverse patterns. In this paper, we present AMPO, an automatic prompt optimization method that can iteratively develop a multi-branched prompt using failure cases as feedback. Our goal is to explore a novel way of structuring prompts with multi-branches to better handle multiple patterns in complex tasks, for which we introduce three modules: Pattern Recognition, Branch Adjustment, and Branch Pruning. In experiments across five tasks, AMPO consistently achieves the best results. Additionally, our approach demonstrates significant optimization efficiency due to our adoption of a minimal search strategy."}
{"Title": "DeMPT: Decoding-enhanced Multi-phase Prompt Tuning for Making LLMs Be Better Context-aware Translators", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "DEFT-UCS: Data Efficient Fine-Tuning for Pre-Trained Language Models via Unsupervised Core-Set Selection for Text-Editing", "Abstract": "Recent advances have led to the availability of many pre-trained language models (PLMs); however, a question that remains is how much data is truly needed to fine-tune PLMs for downstream tasks? In this work, we introduce DEFT-UCS, a data-efficient fine-tuning framework that leverages unsupervised core-set selection to identify a smaller, representative dataset to fine-tune PLMs for text-generation needed for text editing tasks such as simplification, grammar correction, clarity, etc. We examine the efficacy of DEFT-UCS across multiple text-editing tasks, and compare to the state-of-the art text-editing model, CoEDIT. Our results demonstrate that DEFT-UCS models are just as accurate as CoEDIT, across eight different datasets consisting of six different editing tasks, while finetuned on 70{\\%} less data."}
{"Title": "Unveiling Multi-level and Multi-modal Semantic Representations in the Human Brain using Large Language Models", "Abstract": "In recent studies, researchers have used large language models (LLMs) to explore semantic representations in the brain; however, they have typically assessed different levels of semantic content, such as speech, objects, and stories, separately. In this study, we recorded brain activity using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while participants viewed 8.3 hours of dramas and movies. We annotated these stimuli at multiple semantic levels, which enabled us to extract latent representations of LLMs for this content. Our findings demonstrate that LLMs predict human brain activity more accurately than traditional language models, particularly for complex background stories. Furthermore, we identify distinct brain regions associated with different semantic representations, including multi-modal vision-semantic representations, which highlights the importance of modeling multi-level and multi-modal semantic representations simultaneously. We will make our fMRI dataset publicly available to facilitate further research on aligning LLMs with human brain function."}
{"Title": "\u201cThey are uncultured\u201d: Unveiling Covert Harms and Social Threats in LLM Generated Conversations", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have emerged as an integral part of modern societies, powering user-facing applications such as personal assistants and enterprise applications like recruitment tools. Despite their utility, research indicates that LLMs perpetuate systemic biases. Yet, prior works on LLM harms predominantly focus on Western concepts like race and gender, often overlooking cultural concepts from other parts of the world. Additionally, these studies typically investigate {``}harm{''} as a singular dimension, ignoring the various and subtle forms in which harms manifest. To address this gap, we introduce the Covert Harms and Social Threats (CHAST), a set of seven metrics grounded in social science literature. We utilize evaluation models aligned with human assessments to examine the presence of covert harms in LLM-generated conversations, particularly in the context of recruitment. Our experiments reveal that seven out of the eight LLMs included in this study generated conversations riddled with CHAST, characterized by malign views expressed in seemingly neutral language unlikely to be detected by existing methods. Notably, these LLMs manifested more extreme views and opinions when dealing with non-Western concepts like caste, compared to Western ones such as race."}
{"Title": "Multi-expert Prompting Improves Reliability, Safety and Usefulness of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "We present Multi-expert Prompting, a novel enhancement of ExpertPrompting (Xu et al., 2023), designed to improve the large language model (LLM) generation. Specifically, it guides an LLM to fulfill an input instruction by simulating multiple experts, aggregating their responses, and selecting the best among individual and aggregated responses. This process is performed in a single chain of thoughts through our seven carefully designed subtasks derived from the Nominal Group Technique (Ven and Delbecq, 1974), a well-established decision-making framework. Our evaluations demonstrate that Multi-expert Prompting significantly outperforms ExpertPrompting and comparable baselines in enhancing the truthfulness, factuality, informativeness, and usefulness of responses while reducing toxicity and hurtfulness. It further achieves state-of-the-art truthfulness by outperforming the best baseline by 8.69{\\%} with ChatGPT. Multi-expert Prompting is efficient, explainable, and highly adaptable to diverse scenarios, eliminating the need for manual prompt construction."}
{"Title": "Will LLMs Replace the Encoder-Only Models in Temporal Relation Classification?", "Abstract": "The automatic detection of temporal relations among events has been mainly investigated with encoder-only models such as RoBERTa. Large Language Models (LLM) have recently shown promising performance in temporal reasoning tasks such as temporal question answering. Nevertheless, recent studies have tested the LLMs{'} performance in detecting temporal relations of closed-source models only, limiting the interpretability of those results. In this work, we investigate LLMs{'} performance and decision process in the Temporal Relation Classification task. First, we assess the performance of seven open and closed-sourced LLMs experimenting with in-context learning and lightweight fine-tuning approaches. Results show that LLMs with in-context learning significantly underperform smaller encoder-only models based on RoBERTa. Then, we delve into the possible reasons for this gap by applying explainable methods. The outcome suggests a limitation of LLMs in this task due to their autoregressive nature, which causes them to focus only on the last part of the sequence. Additionally, we evaluate the word embeddings of these two models to better understand their pre-training differences. The code and the fine-tuned models can be found respectively on GitHub."}
{"Title": "Eliciting In-Context Learning in Vision-Language Models for Videos Through Curated Data Distributional Properties", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Waterfall: Scalable Framework for Robust Text Watermarking and Provenance for LLMs", "Abstract": "Protecting intellectual property (IP) of text such as articles and code is increasingly important, especially as sophisticated attacks become possible, such as paraphrasing by large language models (LLMs) or even unauthorized training of LLMs on copyrighted text to infringe such IP. However, existing text watermarking methods are not robust enough against such attacks nor scalable to millions of users for practical implementation. In this paper, we propose Waterfall, the first training-free framework for robust and scalable text watermarking applicable across multiple text types (e.g., articles, code) and languages supportable by LLMs, for general text and LLM data provenance. Waterfall comprises several key innovations, such as being the first to use LLM as paraphrasers for watermarking along with a novel combination of techniques that are surprisingly effective in achieving robust verifiability and scalability. We empirically demonstrate that Waterfall achieves significantly better scalability, robust verifiability, and computational efficiency compared to SOTA article-text watermarking methods, and also showed how it could be directly applied to the watermarking of code."}
{"Title": "MASIVE: Open-Ended Affective State Identification in English and Spanish", "Abstract": "In the field of emotion analysis, much NLP research focuses on identifying a limited number of discrete emotion categories, often applied across languages. These basic sets, however, are rarely designed with textual data in mind, and culture, language, and dialect can influence how particular emotions are interpreted. In this work, we broaden our scope to a practically unbounded set of affective states, which includes any terms that humans use to describe their experiences of feeling. We collect and publish MASIVE, a dataset of Reddit posts in English and Spanish containing over 1,000 unique affective states each. We then define the new problem of affective state identification for language generation models framed as a masked span prediction task. On this task, we find that smaller finetuned multilingual models outperform much larger LLMs, even on region-specific Spanish affective states. Additionally, we show that pretraining on MASIVE improves model performance on existing emotion benchmarks. Finally, through machine translation experiments, we find that native speaker-written data is vital to good performance on this task."}
{"Title": "You Make me Feel like a Natural Question: Training QA Systems on Transformed Trivia Questions", "Abstract": "Training question-answering QA and information retrieval systems for web queries require large, expensive datasets that are difficult to annotate and time-consuming to gather. Moreover, while natural datasets of information-seeking questions are often prone to ambiguity or ill-formed, there are troves of freely available, carefully crafted question datasets for many languages. Thus, we automatically generate shorter, information-seeking questions, resembling web queries in the style of the Natural Questions (NQ) dataset from longer trivia data. Training a QA system on these transformed questions is a viable strategy for alternating to more expensive training setups showing the F1 score difference of less than six points and contrasting the final systems."}
{"Title": "AlphaLoRA: Assigning LoRA Experts Based on Layer Training Quality", "Abstract": "Parameter-efficient fine-tuning methods, such as Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA), are known to enhance training efficiency in Large Language Models (LLMs). Due to the limited parameters of LoRA, recent studies seek to combine LoRA with Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) to boost performance across various tasks. However, inspired by the observed redundancy in traditional MoE structures, prior studies find that LoRA experts within the MoE architecture also exhibit redundancy, suggesting a need to vary the allocation of LoRA experts across different layers. In this paper, we leverage Heavy-Tailed Self-Regularization (HT-SR) Theory to design a fine-grained allocation strategy. Our analysis reveals that the number of experts per layer correlates with layer training quality, which exhibits significant variability across layers. Based on this, we introduce AlphaLoRA, a theoretically principled and training-free method for allocating LoRA experts to reduce redundancy further. Experiments on three models across ten language processing and reasoning benchmarks demonstrate that AlphaLoRA achieves comparable or superior performance over all baselines. Our code is available at https://github.com/morelife2017/alphalora."}
{"Title": "Flee the Flaw: Annotating the Underlying Logic of Fallacious Arguments Through Templates and Slot-filling", "Abstract": "Prior research in computational argumentation has mainly focused on scoring the quality of arguments, with less attention on explicating logical errors. In this work, we introduce four sets of explainable templates for common informal logical fallacies designed to explicate a fallacy{'}s implicit logic. Using our templates, we conduct an annotation study on top of 400 fallacious arguments taken from LOGIC dataset and achieve a high agreement score (Krippendorf{'}s $\\alpha$ of 0.54) and reasonable coverage 83{\\%}. Finally, we conduct an experiment for detecting the structure of fallacies and discover that state-of-the-art language models struggle with detecting fallacy templates (0.47 accuracy). To facilitate research on fallacies, we make our dataset and guidelines publicly available."}
{"Title": "Advancing Social Intelligence in AI Agents: Technical Challenges and Open Questions", "Abstract": "Building socially-intelligent AI agents (Social-AI) is a multidisciplinary, multimodal research goal that involves creating agents that can sense, perceive, reason about, learn from, and respond to affect, behavior, and cognition of other agents (human or artificial). Progress towards Social-AI has accelerated in the past decade across several computing communities, including natural language processing, machine learning, robotics, human-machine interaction, computer vision, and speech. Natural language processing, in particular, has been prominent in Social-AI research, as language plays a key role in constructing the social world. In this position paper, we identify a set of underlying technical challenges and open questions for researchers across computing communities to advance Social-AI. We anchor our discussion in the context of social intelligence concepts and prior progress in Social-AI research."}
{"Title": "RAt: Injecting Implicit Bias for Text-To-Image Prompt Refinement Models", "Abstract": "Text-to-image prompt refinement (T2I-Refine) aims to rephrase or extend an input prompt with more descriptive details that can be leveraged to generate images with higher quality. In this paper, we study an adversarial prompt attacking problem for T2I-Refine, where to goal is to implicitly inject specific concept bias to the input prompts during the refinement process so that the generated images, still with higher quality, are explicitly biased to the target group. Our study is motivated by the limitation of current T2I-Refine research that lacks of explorations on the potential capacity of T2I-Refine models to provide prompt refinement service in a biased or advertising manner. To address the limitations, we develop RAt, a prompt refinement and attacking framework that attacks input prompts with intentionally selected adversarial replacements by optimizing a token distribution matrix based on the text-to-image finetuning strategy with a token-level bias obfuscation loss as regularization. We evaluate RAt on a large-scale text-to-image dataset with various concepts as target in both in-domain and transfer-domain scenarios. The evaluation results demonstrate that, compared to other T2I-Refine schemes, RAt is well capable of implicitly attacking input prompts to generate images with higher quality and explicit visual bias towards specific concept group."}
{"Title": "Can LLM Generate Culturally Relevant Commonsense QA Data? Case Study in Indonesian and Sundanese", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly being used to generate synthetic data for training and evaluating models. However, it is unclear whether they can generate a good quality of question answering (QA) dataset that incorporates knowledge and cultural nuance embedded in a language, especially for low-resource languages. In this study, we investigate the effectiveness of using LLMs in generating culturally relevant commonsense QA datasets for Indonesian and Sundanese languages. To do so, we create datasets for these languages using various methods involving both LLMs and human annotators, resulting in 4.5K questions per language (9K in total), making our dataset the largest of its kind. Our experiments show that automatic data adaptation from an existing English dataset is less effective for Sundanese. Interestingly, using the direct generation method on the target language, GPT-4 Turbo can generate questions with adequate general knowledge in both languages, albeit not as culturally {`}deep{'} as humans. We also observe a higher occurrence of fluency errors in the Sundanese dataset, highlighting the discrepancy between medium- and lower-resource languages."}
{"Title": "Can Language Models Induce Grammatical Knowledge from Indirect Evidence?", "Abstract": "What kinds of and how much data is necessary for language models to induce grammatical knowledge to judge sentence acceptability? Recent language models still have much room for improvement in their data efficiency compared to humans. This paper investigates whether language models efficiently use indirect data (indirect evidence), from which they infer sentence acceptability. In contrast, humans use indirect evidence efficiently, which is considered one of the inductive biases contributing to efficient language acquisition. To explore this question, we introduce the Wug InDirect Evidence Test (WIDET), a dataset consisting of training instances inserted into the pre-training data and evaluation instances. We inject synthetic instances with newly coined wug words into pretraining data and explore the model{'}s behavior on evaluation data that assesses grammatical acceptability regarding those words. We prepare the injected instances by varying their levels of indirectness and quantity. Our experiments surprisingly show that language models do not induce grammatical knowledge even after repeated exposure to instances with the same structure but differing only in lexical items from evaluation instances in certain language phenomena. Our findings suggest a potential direction for future research: developing models that use latent indirect evidence to induce grammatical knowledge."}
{"Title": "Do LLMs Know to Respect Copyright Notice?", "Abstract": "Prior study shows that LLMs sometimes generate content that violates copyright. In this paper, we study another important yet underexplored problem, i.e., will LLMs respect copyright information in user input, and behave accordingly? The research problem is critical, as a negative answer would imply that LLMs will become the primary facilitator and accelerator of copyright infringement behavior. We conducted a series of experiments using a diverse set of language models, user prompts, and copyrighted materials, including books, news articles, API documentation, and movie scripts. Our study offers a conservative evaluation of the extent to which language models may infringe upon copyrights when processing user input containing protected material. This research emphasizes the need for further investigation and the importance of ensuring LLMs respect copyright regulations when handling user input to prevent unauthorized use or reproduction of protected content. We also release a benchmark dataset serving as a test bed for evaluating infringement behaviors by LLMs and stress the need for future alignment."}
{"Title": "SpecHub: Provable Acceleration to Multi-Draft Speculative Decoding", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have become essential in advancing natural language processing (NLP) tasks, but their sequential token generation limits inference speed. Multi-Draft Speculative Decoding (MDSD) offers a promising solution by using a smaller draft model to generate multiple token sequences, which the target LLM verifies in parallel.However, current heuristic approaches, such as Recursive Rejection Sampling (RRS), suffer from low acceptance rates in subsequent drafts, limiting the advantages of using multiple drafts. Meanwhile, Optimal Transport with Membership Cost (OTM) can theoretically improve acceptance rates, but its computational cost is too high for real-time use.We present SpecHub, a novel, efficient sampling-verification method for MDSD that improves acceptance rates with only linear computational overhead. By simplifying the OTM problem into a compact Linear Programming model, SpecHub significantly reduces computational complexity. It further accelerates sampling by leveraging a sparse joint distribution, focusing computation on high-probability token sequences.{\\%}It integrates seamlessly into existing MDSD frameworks.In extensive experiments, Spechub consistently generates 0.05-0.27 and 0.02-0.16 more tokens per step than RRS and RRS without replacement. We attach our code at https://github.com/MasterGodzilla/Speculative{\\_}decoding{\\_}OT."}
{"Title": "Interventional Speech Noise Injection for ASR Generalizable Spoken Language Understanding", "Abstract": "Recently, pre-trained language models (PLMs) have been increasingly adopted in spoken language understanding (SLU). However, automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems frequently produce inaccurate transcriptions, leading to noisy inputs for SLU models, which can significantly degrade their performance. To address this, our objective is to train SLU models to withstand ASR errors by exposing them to noises commonly observed in ASR systems, referred to as ASR-plausible noises. Speech noise injection (SNI) methods have pursued this objective by introducing ASR-plausible noises, but we argue that these methods are inherently biased towards specific ASR systems, or ASR-specific noises. In this work, we propose a novel and less biased augmentation method of introducing the noises that are plausible to any ASR system, by cutting off the non-causal effect of noises. Experimental results and analyses demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed methods in enhancing the robustness and generalizability of SLU models against unseen ASR systems by introducing more diverse and plausible ASR noises in advance."}
{"Title": "Rethinking the Role of Proxy Rewards in Language Model Alignment", "Abstract": "Learning from human feedback via proxy reward modeling has been studied to align Large Language Models (LLMs) with human values. However, achieving reliable training through that proxy reward model (RM) is not a trivial problem, and its behavior remained as a black-box. In this paper, we study the role of proxy rewards in the LLM alignment via {`}reverse reward engineering{'} by composing interpretable features as a white-box reward function. We aim to replicate the ground truth (gold) reward signal by achieving a monotonic relationship between the proxy and gold reward signals after training the model using the proxy reward in reinforcement learning (RL). Our findings indicate that successfully emulating the gold reward requires generating responses that are relevant with enough length to open-ended questions, while also ensuring response consistency in closed-ended questions. Furthermore, resulting models optimizing our devised white-box reward show competitive performances with strong open-source RMs in alignment benchmarks. We highlight its potential usage as a simple but strong reward baseline for the LLM alignment, not requiring explicit human feedback dataset and RM training."}
{"Title": "Visual Text Matters: Improving Text-KVQA with Visual Text Entity Knowledge-aware Large Multimodal Assistant", "Abstract": "We revisit knowledge-aware text-based visual question answering, also known as Text-KVQA in the light of modern advancements in large multimodal models (LMMs), and make the following contributions: (i) We propose VisTEL {--} a principled approach to perform visual text entity linking. The proposed VisTEL module harnesses a state-of-the-art visual text recognition engine and the power of a large multimodal model to jointly reason using textual and visual context obtained using surrounding cues in the image to link visual text entity to the correct knowledge base entity. (ii) We present KaLMA {--} knowledge-aware large multimodal assistant that augments an LMM with knowledge associated with visual text entity in the image to arrive at an accurate answer. Further, we provide a comprehensive experimental analysis and comparison of our approach with traditional visual question answering, pre-large multimodal models, and large multimodal models, as well as prior top-performing approaches. Averaging over three splits of Text-KVQA, our proposed approach surpasses the previous best approach by a substantial 23.3{\\%} on an absolute scale and establishes a new state of the art. We make our implementation publicly available."}
{"Title": "Beyond Correlation: Interpretable Evaluation of Machine Translation Metrics", "Abstract": "Machine Translation (MT) evaluation metrics assess translation quality automatically. Recently, researchers have employed MT metrics for various new use cases, such as data filtering and translation re-ranking. However, most MT metrics return assessments as scalar scores that are difficult to interpret, posing a challenge to making informed design choices. Moreover, MT metrics{'} capabilities have historically been evaluated using correlation with human judgment, which, despite its efficacy, falls short of providing intuitive insights into metric performance, especially in terms of new metric use cases. To address these issues, we introduce an interpretable evaluation framework for MT metrics. Within this framework, we evaluate metrics in two scenarios that serve as proxies for the data filtering and translation re-ranking use cases. Furthermore, by measuring the performance of MT metrics using Precision, Recall, and F-score, we offer clearer insights into their capabilities than correlation with human judgments. Finally, we raise concerns regarding the reliability of manually curated data following the Direct Assessments+Scalar Quality Metrics (DA+SQM) guidelines, reporting a notably low agreement with Multidimensional Quality Metrics (MQM) annotations."}
{"Title": "IFCap: Image-like Retrieval and Frequency-based Entity Filtering for Zero-shot Captioning", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in image captioning have explored text-only training methods to overcome the limitations of paired image-text data. However, existing text-only training methods often overlook the modality gap between using text data during training and employing images during inference. To address this issue, we propose a novel approach called Image-like Retrieval, which aligns text features with visually relevant features to mitigate the modality gap. Our method further enhances the accuracy of generated captions by designing a fusion module that integrates retrieved captions with input features. Additionally, we introduce a Frequency-based Entity Filtering technique that significantly improves caption quality. We integrate these methods into a unified framework, which we refer to as IFCap (**I**mage-like Retrieval and **F**requency-based Entity Filtering for Zero-shot **Cap**tioning). Through extensive experimentation, our straightforward yet powerful approach has demonstrated its efficacy, outperforming the state-of-the-art methods by a significant margin in both image captioning and video captioning compared to zero-shot captioning based on text-only training."}
{"Title": "Encoding Spreadsheets for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Spreadsheets are characterized by their extensive two-dimensional grids, flexible layouts, and varied formatting options, which pose significant challenges for large language models (LLMs). In response, we introduce SheetEncoder, pioneering an efficient encoding method designed to unleash and optimize LLMs{'} powerful understanding and reasoning capability on spreadsheets. Initially, we propose a vanilla serialization approach that incorporates cell addresses, values, and formats. However, this approach was limited by LLMs{'} token constraints, making it impractical for most applications. To tackle this challenge, three innovative modules are proposed to compress spreadsheets effectively: structural-anchor-based compression, inverse index translation, and data-format-aware aggregation. It significantly improves performance in spreadsheet table detection task, outperforming the vanilla approach by 25.6{\\%} in GPT4{'}s in-context learning setting. Moreover, fine-tuned LLM with SheetEncoder has an average compression ratio of 25{\\mbox{$\\times$}}, but achieves a state-of-the-art 78.9{\\%} F1 score, surpassing the best existing models by 12.3{\\%}, demonstrating that SheetEncoder greatly boosts LLMs{'}s performance on spreadsheet data."}
{"Title": "Let's discuss! Quality Dimensions and Annotated Datasets for Computational Argument Quality Assessment", "Abstract": "Research in the computational assessment of Argumentation Quality has gained popularity over the last ten years. Various quality dimensions have been explored through the creation of domain-specific datasets and assessment methods. We survey the related literature (211 publications and 32 datasets), while addressing potential overlaps and blurry boundaries to related domains. This paper provides a representative overview of the state of the art in Computational Argument Quality Assessment with a focus on quality dimensions and annotated datasets. The aim of the survey is to identify research gaps and to aid future discussions and work in the domain."}
{"Title": "Automatic sentence segmentation of clinical record narratives in real-world data", "Abstract": "Sentence segmentation is a linguistic task and is widely used as a pre-processing step in many NLP applications. The need for sentence segmentation is particularly pronounced in clinical notes, where ungrammatical and fragmented texts are common. We propose a straightforward and effective sequence labeling classifier to predict sentence spans using a dynamic sliding window based on the prediction of each input sequence. This sliding window algorithm allows our approach to segment long text sequences on the fly. To evaluate our approach, we annotated 90 clinical notes from the MIMIC-III dataset. Additionally, we tested our approach on five other datasets to assess its generalizability and compared its performance against state-of-the-art systems on these datasets. Our approach outperformed all the systems, achieving an F1 score that is 15{\\%} higher than the next best-performing system on the clinical dataset."}
{"Title": "One-to-Many Communication and Compositionality in Emergent Communication", "Abstract": "Compositional languages leverage rules that derive meaning from combinations of simpler constituents. This property is considered to be the hallmark of human language as it enables the ability to express novel concepts and ease of learning. As such, numerous studies in the emergent communication field explore the prerequisite conditions for emergence of compositionality. Most of these studies set out one-to-one communication environment wherein a speaker interacts with a single listener during a single round of communication game. However, real-world communications often involve multiple listeners; their interests may vary and they may even need to coordinate among themselves to be successful at a given task. This work investigates the effects of one-to-many communication environment on emergent languages where a single speaker broadcasts its message to multiple listeners to cooperatively solve a task. We observe that simply broadcasting the speaker{'}s message to multiple listeners does not induce more compositional languages. We then find and analyze two axes of environmental pressures that facilitate emergence of compositionality: listeners of *different interests* and *coordination* among listeners."}
{"Title": "Bayesian Example Selection Improves In-Context Learning for Speech, Text and Visual Modalities", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) can adapt to new tasks through in-context learning (ICL) based on a few examples presented in dialogue history without any model parameter update. Despite such convenience, the performance of ICL heavily depends on the quality of the in-context examples presented, which makes the in-context example selection approach a critical choice. This paper proposes a novel eBayesian in-Context example Selection method (ByCS) for ICL. Extending the inference probability conditioned on in-context examples based on Bayes{'} theorem, ByCS focuses on the inverse inference conditioned on test input. Following the assumption that accurate inverse inference probability (likelihood) will result in accurate inference probability (posterior), in-context examples are selected based on their inverse inference results. Diverse and extensive cross-tasking and cross-modality experiments are performed with speech, text, and image examples. Experimental results show the efficacy and robustness of our ByCS method on various models, tasks and modalities."}
{"Title": "Investigating Multilingual Instruction-Tuning: Do Polyglot Models Demand for Multilingual Instructions?", "Abstract": "The adaption of multilingual pre-trained LLMs into eloquent and helpful assistants is essential to facilitate their use across different language regions. In that spirit, we are the first to conduct an extensive study of the performance of multilingual models instruction-tuned on different language compositions on \\textit{parallel} \\textit{instruction-tuning} benchmarks across a selection of the most spoken Indo-European languages. We systematically examine the effects of language and instruction dataset size on a mid-sized and a large, multilingual LLMs by instruction-tuning them on parallel instruction-tuning datasets. Our results demonstrate that instruction-tuning on parallel instead of monolingual corpora benefits cross-lingual instruction following capabilities by up to 9.9{\\%}. Furthermore, we show that the Superficial Alignment Hypothesis does not hold in general, as the investigated multilingual 7B parameter model presents a counter-example requiring large-scale instruction-tuning datasets. Finally, we conduct a human annotation study to understand the alignment between human-based and GPT-4-based evaluation within multilingual chat scenarios."}
{"Title": "Multi-LogiEval: Towards Evaluating Multi-Step Logical Reasoning Ability of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "As Large Language Models (LLMs) continue to exhibit remarkable performance in natural language understanding tasks, there is a crucial need to measure their ability for human-like multi-step logical reasoning. Existing logical reasoning evaluation benchmarks often focus primarily on simplistic single-step or multi-step reasoning with a limited set of inference rules. Furthermore, the lack of datasets for evaluating non-monotonic reasoning represents a crucial gap since it aligns more closely with human-like reasoning. To address these limitations, we propose Multi-LogiEval, a comprehensive evaluation dataset encompassing multi-step logical reasoning with various inference rules and depths. Multi-LogiEval covers three logic types {---} propositional, first-order, and non-monotonic consisting of more than 30 inference rules and more than 60 of their combinations with various depths. Leveraging this dataset, we conduct evaluations on a range of LLMs such as GPT-4, ChatGPT, Gemini-Pro, Orca, and Mistral, employing a zero-shot chain-of-thought. Experimental results show that there is a significant drop in the performance of LLMs as the reasoning steps/depth increases (average accuracy of {\\textasciitilde}68{\\%} at depth-1 to {\\textasciitilde}43{\\%} at depth-5). We further conduct a thorough investigation of reasoning chains generated by LLMs which reveals several important findings. We believe that Multi-LogiEval facilitates future research for evaluating and enhancing the logical reasoning ability of LLMs."}
{"Title": "Linear Layer Extrapolation for Fine-Grained Emotion Classification", "Abstract": "Certain abilities of Transformer-based language models consistently emerge in their later layers. Previous research has leveraged this phenomenon to improve factual accuracy through self-contrast, penalizing early-exit predictions based on the premise that later-layer updates are more factually reliable than earlier-layer associations. We observe a similar pattern for fine-grained emotion classification in text, demonstrating that self-contrast can enhance encoder-based text classifiers. Additionally, we reinterpret self-contrast as a form of linear extrapolation, which motivates a refined approach that dynamically adjusts the contrastive strength based on the selected intermediate layer. Experiments across multiple models and emotion classification datasets show that our method outperforms standard classification techniques in fine-grained emotion classification tasks."}
{"Title": "Task Oriented In-Domain Data Augmentation", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown superior performance in various applications and fields. To achieve better performance on specialized domains such as law and advertisement, LLMs are often continue pre-trained on in-domain data. However, existing approaches suffer from two major issues. First, in-domain data are scarce compared with general domain-agnostic data. Second, data used for continual pre-training are not task-aware, such that they may not be helpful to downstream applications. We propose TRAIT, a task-oriented in-domain data augmentation framework. Our framework is divided into two parts: in-domain data selection and task-oriented synthetic passage generation. The data selection strategy identifies and selects a large amount of in-domain data from general corpora, and thus significantly enriches domain knowledge in the continual pre-training data. The synthetic passages contain guidance on how to use domain knowledge to answer questions about downstream tasks. By training on such passages, the model aligns with the need of downstream applications. We adapt LLMs to two domains: advertisement and math. On average, TRAIT improves LLM performance by 8{\\%} in the advertisement domain and 7.5{\\%} in the math domain."}
{"Title": "SciDQA: A Deep Reading Comprehension Dataset over Scientific Papers", "Abstract": "Scientific literature is typically dense, requiring significant background knowledge and deep comprehension for effective engagement. We introduce SciDQA, a new dataset for reading comprehension that challenges language models to deeply understand scientific articles, consisting of 2,937 QA pairs. Unlike other scientific QA datasets, SciDQA sources questions from peer reviews by domain experts and answers by paper authors, ensuring a thorough examination of the literature. We enhance the dataset{'}s quality through a process that carefully decontextualizes the content, tracks the source document across different versions, and incorporates a bibliography for multi-document question-answering. Questions in SciDQA necessitate reasoning across figures, tables, equations, appendices, and supplementary materials, and require multi-document reasoning. We evaluate several open-source and proprietary LLMs across various configurations to explore their capabilities in generating relevant and factual responses, as opposed to simple review memorization. Our comprehensive evaluation, based on metrics for surface-level and semantic similarity, highlights notable performance discrepancies. SciDQA represents a rigorously curated, naturally derived scientific QA dataset, designed to facilitate research on complex reasoning within the domain of question answering for scientific texts."}
{"Title": "Mixture-of-Modules: Reinventing Transformers as Dynamic Assemblies of Modules", "Abstract": "Is it always necessary to compute tokens from shallow to deep layers in Transformers? The continued success of vanilla Transformers and their variants suggests an undoubted {``}yes{''}. In this work, however, we attempt to break the depth-ordered convention by proposing a novel architecture dubbed mixture-of-modules (MoM), which is motivated by an intuition that any layer, regardless of its position, can be used to compute a token as long as it possesses the needed processing capabilities. The construction of MoM starts from a finite set of modules defined by multi-head attention and feed-forward networks, each distinguished by its unique parameterization. Two routers then iteratively select attention modules and feed-forward modules from the set to process a token. The selection dynamically expands the computation graph in the forward pass of the token, culminating in an assembly of modules. We show that MoM provides not only a unified framework for Transformers and their numerous variants but also a flexible and learnable approach for reducing redundancy in Transformer parameterization. We pre-train various MoMs using OpenWebText. Empirical results demonstrate that MoMs, of different sizes, consistently outperform vanilla transformers. More interestingly, after removing 50{\\%} of the multi-head attention modules and 25{\\%} of the feed-forward modules, an MoM model still holds comparable performance. Additionally, by properly adjusting the number of modules and compressing the model depth, one can have an MoM that achieves comparable performance to GPT-2 (774M) while saving 16{\\%} TFLOPs and 42{\\%} memory usage during forward computation."}
{"Title": "No Culture Left Behind: ArtELingo-28, a Benchmark of WikiArt with Captions in 28 Languages", "Abstract": "Research in vision and language has made considerable progress thanks to benchmarks such as COCO. COCO captions focused on unambiguous facts in English; ArtEmis introduced subjective emotions and ArtELingo introduced some multilinguality (Chinese and Arabic). However we believe there should be more multilinguality. Hence, we present ArtELingo-28, a vision-language benchmark that spans 28 languages and encompasses approximately 200,000 annotations (140 annotations per image). Traditionally, vision research focused on unambiguous class labels, whereas ArtELingo-28 emphasizes diversity of opinions over languages and cultures. The challenge is to build machine learning systems that assign emotional captions to images. Baseline results will be presented for three novel conditions: Zero-Shot, Few-Shot and One-vs-All Zero-Shot. We find that cross-lingual transfer is more successful for culturally-related languages. Data and code will be made publicly available."}
{"Title": "PREDICT: Multi-Agent-based Debate Simulation for Generalized Hate Speech Detection", "Abstract": "While a few public benchmarks have been proposed for training hate speech detection models, the differences in labeling criteria between these benchmarks pose challenges for generalized learning, limiting the applicability of the models. Previous research has presented methods to generalize models through data integration or augmentation, but overcoming the differences in labeling criteria between datasets remains a limitation. To address these challenges, we propose PREDICT, a novel framework that uses the notion of multi-agent for hate speech detection. PREDICT consists of two phases: (1) PRE (Perspective-based REasoning): Multiple agents are created based on the induced labeling criteria of given datasets, and each agent generates stances and reasons; (2) DICT (Debate using InCongruenT references): Agents representing hate and non-hate stances conduct the debate, and a judge agent classifies hate or non-hate and provides a balanced reason. Experiments on five representative public benchmarks show that PREDICT achieves superior cross-evaluation performance compared to methods that focus on specific labeling criteria or majority voting methods. Furthermore, we validate that PREDICT effectively mediates differences between agents{'} opinions and appropriately incorporates minority opinions to reach a consensus. Our code is available at https://github.com/Hanyang-HCC-Lab/PREDICT"}
{"Title": "TokenVerse: Towards Unifying Speech and NLP Tasks via Transducer-based ASR", "Abstract": "In traditional conversational intelligence from speech, a cascaded pipeline is used, involving tasks such as voice activity detection, diarization, transcription, and subsequent processing with different NLP models for tasks like semantic endpointing and named entity recognition (NER). Our paper introduces TokenVerse, a single Transducer-based model designed to handle multiple tasks. This is achieved by integrating task-specific tokens into the reference text during ASR model training, streamlining the inference and eliminating the need for separate NLP models. In addition to ASR, we conduct experiments on 3 different tasks: speaker change detection, endpointing, and NER. Our experiments on a public and a private dataset show that the proposed method improves ASR by up to 7.7{\\%} in relative WER while outperforming the cascaded pipeline approach in individual task performance. Our code is publicly available: https://github.com/idiap/tokenverse-unifying-speech-nlp"}
{"Title": "ApiQ: Finetuning of 2-Bit Quantized Large Language Model", "Abstract": "Memory-efficient finetuning of large language models (LLMs) has recently attracted huge attention with the increasing size of LLMs, primarily due to the constraints posed by GPU memory limitations and the effectiveness of these methods compared to full finetuning. Despite the advancements, current strategies for memory-efficient finetuning, such as QLoRA, exhibit inconsistent performance across diverse bit-width quantizations and multifaceted tasks. This inconsistency largely stems from the detrimental impact of the quantization process on preserved knowledge, leading to catastrophic forgetting and undermining the utilization of pretrained models for finetuning purposes. In this work, we introduce a novel quantization framework named ApiQ, designed to restore the lost information from quantization by concurrently initializing the LoRA components and quantizing the weights of LLMs. This approach ensures the maintenance of the original LLM{'}s activation precision while mitigating the error propagation from shallower into deeper layers. Through comprehensive evaluations conducted on a spectrum of language tasks with various LLMs, ApiQ demonstrably minimizes activation error during quantization. Consequently, it consistently achieves superior finetuning results across various bit-widths. Notably, one can even finetune a 2-bit Llama-2-70b with ApiQ on a single NVIDIA A100-80GB GPU without any memory-saving techniques, and achieve promising results."}
{"Title": "Memorize Step by Step: Efficient Long-Context Prefilling with Incremental Memory and Decremental Chunk", "Abstract": "The evolution of Large Language Models (LLMs) has led to significant advancements, with models like Claude and Gemini capable of processing contexts up to 1 million tokens. However, efficiently handling long sequences remains challenging, particularly during the prefilling stage when input lengths exceed GPU memory capacity. Traditional methods often segment sequence into chunks and compress them iteratively with fixed-size memory. However, our empirical analysis shows that the fixed-size memory results in wasted computational and GPU memory resources. Therefore, we introduces Incremental Memory (IM), a method that starts with a small memory size and gradually increases it, optimizing computational efficiency. Additionally, we propose Decremental Chunk based on Incremental Memory (IMDC), which reduces chunk size while increasing memory size, ensuring stable and lower GPU memory usage. Our experiments demonstrate that IMDC is consistently faster (1.45x) and reduces GPU memory consumption by 23.3{\\%} compared to fixed-size memory, achieving comparable performance on the LongBench Benchmark."}
{"Title": "A Morphology-Based Investigation of Positional Encodings", "Abstract": "Contemporary deep learning models effectively handle languages with diverse morphology despite not being directly integrated into them. Morphology and word order are closely linked, with the latter incorporated into transformer-based models through positional encodings. This prompts a fundamental inquiry: Is there a correlation between the morphological complexity of a language and the utilization of positional encoding in pre-trained language models? In pursuit of an answer, we present the first study addressing this question, encompassing 22 languages and 5 downstream tasks. Our findings reveal that the importance of positional encoding diminishes with increasing morphological complexity in languages. Our study motivates the need for a deeper understanding of positional encoding, augmenting them to better reflect the different languages under consideration."}
{"Title": "I love pineapple on pizza != I hate pineapple on pizza: Stance-Aware Sentence Transformers for Opinion Mining", "Abstract": "Sentence transformers excel at grouping topically similar texts, but struggle to differentiate opposing viewpoints on the same topic. This shortcoming hinders their utility in applications where understanding nuanced differences in opinion is essential, such as those related to social and political discourse analysis. This paper addresses this issue by fine-tuning sentence transformers with arguments for and against human-generated controversial claims. We demonstrate how our fine-tuned model enhances the utility of sentence transformers for social computing tasks such as opinion mining and stance detection. We elaborate that applying stance-aware sentence transformers to opinion mining is a more computationally efficient and robust approach in comparison to the classic classification-based approaches."}
{"Title": "BiasWipe: Mitigating Unintended Bias in Text Classifiers through Model Interpretability", "Abstract": "Toxic content detection plays a vital role in addressing the misuse of social media platforms to harm people or groups due to their race, gender or ethnicity. However, due to the nature of the datasets, systems develop an unintended bias due to the over-generalization of the model to the training data. This compromises the fairness of the systems, which can impact certain groups due to their race, gender, etc.Existing methods mitigate bias using data augmentation, adversarial learning, etc., which require re-training and adding extra parameters to the model.In this work, we present a robust and generalizable technique \\textit{BiasWipe} to mitigate unintended bias in language models. \\textit{BiasWipe} utilizes model interpretability using Shapley values, which achieve fairness by pruning the neuron weights responsible for unintended bias. It first identifies the neuron weights responsible for unintended bias and then achieves fairness by pruning them without loss of original performance. It does not require re-training or adding extra parameters to the model. To show the effectiveness of our proposed technique for bias unlearning, we perform extensive experiments for Toxic content detection for BERT, RoBERTa, and GPT models. ."}
{"Title": "ArMeme: Propagandistic Content in Arabic Memes", "Abstract": "With the rise of digital communication memes have become a significant medium for cultural and political expression that is often used to mislead audience. Identification of such misleading and persuasive multimodal content become more important among various stakeholders, including social media platforms, policymakers, and the broader society as they often cause harm to the individuals, organizations and/or society. While there has been effort to develop AI based automatic system for resource rich languages (e.g., English), it is relatively little to none for medium to low resource languages. In this study, we focused on developing an Arabic memes dataset with manual annotations of propagandistic content. We annotated $\\sim6K$ Arabic memes collected from various social media platforms, which is a first resource for Arabic multimodal research. We provide a comprehensive analysis aiming to develop computational tools for their detection. We made the dataset publicly available for the community."}
{"Title": "Language is Scary when Over-Analyzed: Unpacking Implied Misogynistic Reasoning with Argumentation Theory-Driven Prompts", "Abstract": "We propose misogyny detection as an Argumentative Reasoning task and we investigate the capacity of large language models (LLMs) to understand the implicit reasoning used to convey misogyny in both Italian and English. The central aim is to generate the missing reasoning link between a message and the implied meanings encoding the misogyny. Our study uses argumentation theory as a foundation to form a collection of prompts in both zero-shot and few-shot settings. These prompts integrate different techniques, including chain-of-thought reasoning and augmented knowledge. Our findings show that LLMs fall short on reasoning capabilities about misogynistic comments and that they mostly rely on their implicit knowledge derived from internalized common stereotypes about women to generate implied assumptions, rather than on inductive reasoning."}
{"Title": "Thoughts to Target: Enhance Planning for Target-driven Conversation", "Abstract": "In conversational AI, large-scale models excel in various tasks but struggle with target-driven conversation planning. Current methods, such as chain-of-thought reasoning and tree-search policy learning techniques, either neglect plan rationality or require extensive human simulation procedures. Addressing this, we propose a novel two-stage framework, named EnPL, to improve the LLMs{'} capability in planning conversations towards designated targets, including (1) distilling natural language plans from target-driven conversation corpus and (2) generating new plans with demonstration-guided in-context learning. Specifically, we first propose a filter approach to distill a high-quality plan dataset, ConvPlan (Resources of this paper can be found at https://github.com/pandazzh2020/ConvPlan). With the aid of corresponding conversational data and support from relevant knowledge bases, we validate the quality and rationality of these plans. Then, these plans are leveraged to help guide LLMs to further plan for new targets. Empirical results demonstrate that our method significantly improves the planning ability of LLMs, especially in target-driven conversations. Furthermore, EnPL is demonstrated to be quite effective in collecting target-driven conversation datasets and enhancing response generation, paving the way for constructing extensive target-driven conversational models."}
{"Title": "Scalable Data Ablation Approximations for Language Models through Modular Training and Merging", "Abstract": "Training data compositions for Large Language Models (LLMs) can significantly affect their downstream performance. However, a thorough data ablation study exploring large sets of candidate data mixtures is typically prohibitively expensive since the full effect is seen only after training the models; this can lead practitioners to settle for sub-optimal data mixtures. We propose an efficient method for approximating data ablations which trains individual models on subsets of a training corpus and reuses them across evaluations of combinations of subsets.In continued pre-training experiments, we find that, given an arbitrary evaluation set, the perplexity score of a single model trained on a candidate set of data is strongly correlated with perplexity scores of parameter averages of models trained on distinct partitions of that data. From this finding, we posit that researchers and practitioners can conduct inexpensive simulations of data ablations by maintaining a pool of models that were each trained on partitions of a large training corpus, and assessing candidate data mixtures by evaluating parameter averages of combinations of these models. This approach allows for substantial improvements in amortized training efficiency {--} scaling only linearly with respect to new data {--} by enabling reuse of previous training computation, opening new avenues for improving model performance through rigorous, incremental data assessment and mixing."}
{"Title": "Exploring Intrinsic Language-specific Subspaces in Fine-tuning Multilingual Neural Machine Translation", "Abstract": "Multilingual neural machine translation models support fine-tuning hundreds of languages simultaneously. However, fine-tuning on full parameters solely is inefficient potentially leading to negative interactions among languages. In this work, we demonstrate that the fine-tuning for a language occurs in its intrinsic language-specific subspace with a tiny fraction of entire parameters. Thus, we propose language-specific LoRA to isolate intrinsic language-specific subspaces. Furthermore, we propose architecture learning techniques and introduce a gradual pruning schedule during fine-tuning to exhaustively explore the optimal setting and the minimal intrinsic subspaces for each language, resulting in a lightweight yet effective fine-tuning procedure. The experimental results on a 12-language subset and a 30-language subset of FLORES-101 show that our methods not only outperform full-parameter fine-tuning up to 2.25 spBLEU scores but also reduce trainable parameters to 0.4{\\%} for high and medium-resource languages and 1.6{\\%} for low-resource ones."}
{"Title": "Attention Score is not All You Need for Token Importance Indicator in KV Cache Reduction: Value Also Matters", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Generative Subgraph Retrieval for Knowledge Graph\u2013Grounded Dialog Generation", "Abstract": "Knowledge graph{--}grounded dialog generation requires retrieving a dialog-relevant subgraph from the given knowledge base graph and integrating it with the dialog history. Previous works typically represent the graph using an external encoder, such as graph neural networks, and retrieve relevant triplets based on the similarity between single-vector representations of triplets and the dialog history. However, these external encoders fail to leverage the rich knowledge of pretrained language models, and the retrieval process is also suboptimal due to the information bottleneck caused by the single-vector abstraction of the dialog history. In this work, we propose Dialog generation with Generative Subgraph Retrieval (DialogGSR), which retrieves relevant knowledge subgraphs by directly generating their token sequences on top of language models. For effective generative subgraph retrieval, we introduce two key methods: (i) structure-aware knowledge graph linearization with self-supervised graph-specific tokens and (ii) graph-constrained decoding utilizing graph structural proximity-based entity informativeness scores for valid and relevant generative retrieval. DialogGSR achieves state-of-the-art performance in knowledge graph{--}grounded dialog generation, as demonstrated on OpenDialKG and KOMODIS datasets."}
{"Title": "Adapters Mixup: Mixing Parameter-Efficient Adapters to Enhance the Adversarial Robustness of Fine-tuned Pre-trained Text Classifiers", "Abstract": "Existing works show that augmenting the training data of pre-trained language models (PLMs) for classification tasks fine-tuned via parameter-efficient fine-tuning methods (PEFT) using both clean and adversarial examples can enhance their robustness under adversarial attacks. However, this adversarial training paradigm often leads to performance degradation on clean inputs and requires frequent re-training on the entire data to account for new, unknown attacks. To overcome these challenges while still harnessing the benefits of adversarial training and the efficiency of PEFT, this work proposes a novel approach, called AdpMixup, that combines two paradigms: (1) fine-tuning through adapters and (2) adversarial augmentation via mixup to dynamically leverage existing knowledge from a set of pre-known attacks for robust inference. Intuitively, AdpMixup fine-tunes PLMs with multiple adapters with both clean and pre-known adversarial examples and intelligently mixes them up in different ratios during prediction. Our experiments show AdpMixup achieves the best trade-off between training efficiency and robustness under both pre-known and unknown attacks, compared to existing baselines on five downstream tasks across six varied black-box attacks and 2 PLMs. The code is available at https://github.com/nguyentuc/adapters{\\_}mixup."}
{"Title": "Generalizing Clinical De-identification Models by Privacy-safe Data Augmentation using GPT-4", "Abstract": "De-identification (de-ID) refers to removing the association between a set of identifying data and the data subject. In clinical data management, the de-ID of Protected Health Information (PHI) is critical for patient confidentiality. However, state-of-the-art de-ID models show poor generalization on a new dataset. This is due to the difficulty of retaining training corpora. Additionally, labeling standards and the formats of patient records vary across different institutions. Our study addresses these issues by exploiting GPT-4 for data augmentation through one-shot and zero-shot prompts. Our approach effectively circumvents the problem of PHI leakage, ensuring privacy by redacting PHI before processing. To evaluate the effectiveness of our proposal, we conduct cross-dataset testing. The experimental result demonstrates significant improvements across three types of F1 scores."}
{"Title": "Connecting the Dots: Evaluating Abstract Reasoning Capabilities of LLMs Using the New York Times Connections Word Game", "Abstract": "The New York Times Connections game has emerged as a popular and challenging pursuit for word puzzle enthusiasts. We collect438 Connections games to evaluate the performance of state-of-the-art large language models (LLMs) against expert and novice humanplayers. Our results show that even the best-performing LLM, Claude 3.5 Sonnet, which has otherwise shown impressive reasoning abilities on a wide variety of benchmarks, can only fully solve 18{\\%} of the games. Novice and expert players perform better than Claude 3.5 Sonnet, with expert human players significantly outperforming it. We create a taxonomy of the knowledge types required to successfully cluster and categorize words in the Connections game. We find that while LLMs are decent at categorizing words based on semantic relations they struggle with other types of knowledge such as Encyclopedic Knowledge, Multiword Expressions or knowledge that combines both Word Form and Meaning. Our results establish the New York Times Connections game as a challenging benchmark for evaluating abstract reasoning capabilities in humans and AI systems."}
{"Title": "GottBERT: a pure German Language Model", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Computational Meme Understanding: A Survey", "Abstract": "Computational Meme Understanding, which concerns the automated comprehension of memes, has garnered interest over the last four years and is facing both substantial opportunities and challenges. We survey this emerging area of research by first introducing a comprehensive taxonomy for memes along three dimensions {--} forms, functions, and topics. Next, we present three key tasks in Computational Meme Understanding, namely, classification, interpretation, and explanation, and conduct a comprehensive review of existing datasets and models, discussing their limitations. Finally, we highlight the key challenges and recommend avenues for future work."}
{"Title": "CoverICL: Selective Annotation for In-Context Learning via Active Graph Coverage", "Abstract": "In-context learning (ICL) adapts Large Language Models (LLMs) to new tasks, without requiring any parameter updates, but few annotated examples as input. In this work, we investigate selective annotation for ICL, where there is a limited budget for annotating examples, similar to low-budget active learning (AL). Although uncertainty-based selection is unreliable with few annotated data, we present CoverICL, an adaptive graph-based selection algorithm, that effectively incorporates uncertainty sampling into selective annotation for ICL. First, CoverICL builds a nearest-neighbor graph based on the semantic similarity between candidate ICL examples. Then, CoverICL employs uncertainty estimation by the LLM to identify hard examples for the task. Selective annotation is performed over the active graph of the hard examples, adapting the process to the particular LLM used and the task tackled. CoverICL selects the most representative examples by solving a Maximum Coverage problem, approximating diversity-based sampling. Extensive experiments on ten datasets and seven LLMs show that, by incorporating uncertainty via coverage on the active graph, CoverICL (1) outperforms existing AL methods for ICL by 2{--}4.6{\\%} accuracy points, (2) is up to 2x more budget-efficient than SOTA methods for low-budget AL, and (3) generalizes better across tasks compared to non-graph alternatives."}
{"Title": "Retrieval-enriched zero-shot image classification in low-resource domains", "Abstract": "Low-resource domains, characterized by scarce data and annotations, present significant challenges for language and visual understanding tasks, with the latter much under-explored in the literature. Recent advancements in Vision-Language Models (VLM) have shown promising results in high-resource domains but fall short in low-resource concepts that are under-represented (e.g. only a handful of images per category) in the pre-training set. We tackle the challenging task of zero-shot low-resource image classification from a novel perspective. By leveraging a retrieval-based strategy, we achieve this in a training-free fashion. Specifically, our method, named CoRE (Combination of Retrieval Enrichment), enriches the representation of both query images and class prototypes by retrieving relevant textual information from large web-crawled databases. This retrieval-based enrichment significantly boosts classification performance by incorporating the broader contextual information relevant to the specific class. We validate our method on a newly established benchmark covering diverse low-resource domains, including medical imaging, rare plants, and circuits. Our experiments demonstrate that CoRE outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods that rely on synthetic data generation and model fine-tuning."}
{"Title": "I-AM-G: Interest Augmented Multimodal Generator for Item Personalization", "Abstract": "The emergence of personalized generation has made it possible to create texts or images that meet the unique needs of users. Recent advances mainly focus on style or scene transfer based on given keywords. However, in e-commerce and recommender systems, it is almost an untouched area to explore user historical interactions, automatically mine user interests with semantic associations, and create item representations that closely align with user individual interests.In this paper, we propose a brand new framework called **I**nterest-**A**ugmented **M**ultimodal **G**enerator (**I-AM-G**). The framework first extracts tags from the multimodal information of items that the user has interacted with, and the most frequently occurred ones are extracted to rewrite the text description of the item. Then, the framework uses a decoupled text-to-text and image-to-image retriever to search for the top-$K$ similar item text and image embeddings from the item pool. Finally, the Attention module for user interests fuses the retrieved information in a cross-modal manner and further guides the personalized generation process in collaboration with the rewritten text.We conducted extensive and comprehensive experiments to demonstrate that our framework can effectively generate results aligned with user preferences, which potentially provides a new paradigm of **Rewrite and Retrieve** for personalized generation."}
{"Title": "Twists, Humps, and Pebbles: Multilingual Speech Recognition Models Exhibit Gender Performance Gaps", "Abstract": "Current automatic speech recognition (ASR) models are designed to be used across many languages and tasks without substantial changes. However, this broad language coverage hides performance gaps within languages, for example, across genders. Our study systematically evaluates the performance of two widely used multilingual ASR models on three datasets, encompassing 19 languages from eight language families and two speaking conditions. Our findings reveal clear gender disparities, with the advantaged group varying across languages and models. Surprisingly, those gaps are not explained by acoustic or lexical properties. However, probing internal model states reveals a correlation with gendered performance gap. That is, the easier it is to distinguish speaker gender in a language using probes, the more the gap reduces, favoring female speakers. Our results show that gender disparities persist even in state-of-the-art models. Our findings have implications for the improvement of multilingual ASR systems, underscoring the importance of accessibility to training data and nuanced evaluation to predict and mitigate gender gaps. We release all code and artifacts at https://github.com/g8a9/multilingual-asr-gender-gap."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Language Model Alignment: A Confidence-Based Approach to Label Smoothing", "Abstract": "In recent years, Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities across various domains. Within the training pipeline of LLMs, the Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) phase is crucial for aligning LLMs with human preferences and values. Label smoothing, a technique that replaces hard labels with soft labels, emerges as promising techniques to enhance RLHF training. Despite the benefits, the choice of label smoothing parameters often relies on heuristic approaches and lack theoretical understanding. This paper addresses the challenge of selecting the label smoothing parameter in a principled manner. We introduce Confidence Aware Label Smoothing (CALS), a method that iteratively updates the label smoothing parameter based on preference labels and model forecasts. Our theoretical analysis characterizes the optimal label smoothing parameter, demonstrates its dependence on the confidence level, and reveals its influence on training dynamics and equilibrium. Empirical evaluations on state-of-the-art alignment tasks show that CALS achieves competitive performance, highlighting its potential for improving alignment."}
{"Title": "Contrastive Policy Gradient: Aligning LLMs on sequence-level scores in a supervised-friendly fashion", "Abstract": "Reinforcement Learning (RL) has been used to finetune Large Language Models (LLMs) using a reward model trained from preference data, to better align with human judgment. The recently introduced direct alignment methods, which are often simpler, more stable, and computationally lighter, can more directly achieve this. However, these approaches cannot optimize arbitrary rewards, and the preference-based ones are not the only rewards of interest for LLMs (eg, unit tests for code generation or textual entailment for summarization, among others). RL-finetuning is usually done with a variation of policy gradient, which calls for on-policy or near-on-policy samples, requiring costly generations. We introduce *Contrastive Policy Gradient*, or CoPG, a simple and mathematically principled new RL algorithm that can estimate the optimal policy even from off-policy data. It can be seen as an off-policy policy gradient approach that does not rely on important sampling techniques and highlights the importance of using (the right) state baseline. We show this approach to generalize the direct alignment method IPO (identity preference optimization) and classic policy gradient. We experiment with the proposed CoPGon a toy bandit problem to illustrate its properties, as well as for finetuning LLMs on a summarization task, using a learned reward function considered as ground truth for the purpose of the experiments."}
{"Title": "Show and Guide: Instructional-Plan Grounded Vision and Language Model", "Abstract": "Guiding users through complex procedural plans is an inherently multimodal task in which having visually illustrated plan steps is crucial to deliver an effective plan guidance. However, existing works on plan-following language models (LMs) often are not capable of multimodal input and output. In this work, we present MM-PlanLLM, the first multimodal LLM designed to assist users in executing instructional tasks by leveraging both textual plans and visual information. Specifically, we bring cross-modality through two key tasks: Conversational Video Moment Retrieval, where the model retrieves relevant step-video segments based on user queries, and Visually-Informed Step Generation, where the model generates the next step in a plan, conditioned on an image of the user{'}s current progress. MM-PlanLLM is trained using a novel multitask-multistage approach, designed to gradually expose the model to multimodal instructional-plans semantic layers, achieving strong performance on both multimodal and textual dialogue in a plan-grounded setting. Furthermore, we show that the model delivers cross-modal temporal and plan-structure representations aligned between textual plan steps and instructional video moments."}
{"Title": "Beyond Turn-Based Interfaces: Synchronous LLMs as Full-Duplex Dialogue Agents", "Abstract": "Despite broad interest in modeling spoken dialogue agents, most approaches are inherently {``}half-duplex{''} {--} restricted to turn-based interaction with responses requiring explicit prompting by the user or implicit tracking of interruption or silence events. Human dialogue, by contrast, is {``}full-duplex{''} allowing for rich synchronicity in the form of quick and dynamic turn-taking, overlapping speech, and backchanneling. Technically, the challenge of achieving full-duplex dialogue with LLMs lies in modeling synchrony as pre-trained LLMs do not have a sense of {``}time{''}. To bridge this gap, we propose Synchronous LLMs for full-duplex spoken dialogue modeling. We design a novel mechanism to integrate time information into Llama3-8b so that they run synchronously with the real-world clock. We also introduce a training recipe that uses 212k hours of synthetic spoken dialogue data generated from text dialogue data to create a model that generates meaningful and natural spoken dialogue, with just 2k hours of real-world spoken dialogue data. Synchronous LLMs outperform state-of-the-art in dialogue meaningfulness while maintaining naturalness. Finally, we demonstrate the model{'}s ability to participate in full-duplex dialogue by simulating interaction between two agents trained on different datasets, while considering Internet-scale latencies of up to 240 ms."}
{"Title": "QuBE: Question-based Belief Enhancement for Agentic LLM Reasoning", "Abstract": "Despite advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs), many complex tasks are not easily solved in a single inference step, requiring the use of agentic LLMs in interactive environments. However, agentic LLMs suffer from a phenomenon known as reasoning derailment, due to the indiscriminate incorporation of observations from partially observable environments. We introduce QuBE, a method that enhances agents{'} focus on task-relevant contexts, by constructing a belief state via question answering. We validate QuBE through experiments in two agentic LLM scenarios with partial observability: 1) a canonical interactive decision-making scenario using text-based game engines, and 2) an interactive retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) scenario using search engines. In the AlfWorld text-based game, QuBE outperforms established baselines by substantial margins, and in the search engine scenario, it achieves marked improvements on the BeIR zero-shot retrieval benchmark. The results demonstrate that QuBE significantly mitigates reasoning derailment, refining the decision-making process of LLM agents in partially observed environments."}
{"Title": "CompAct: Compressing Retrieved Documents Actively for Question Answering", "Abstract": "Retrieval-augmented generation supports language models to strengthen their factual groundings by providing external contexts. However, language models often face challenges when given extensive information, diminishing their effectiveness in solving questions. Context compression tackles this issue by filtering out irrelevant information, but current methods still struggle in realistic scenarios where crucial information cannot be captured with a single-step approach. To overcome this limitation, we introduce CompAct, a novel framework that employs an active strategy to condense extensive documents without losing key information. Our experiments demonstrate that CompAct brings significant improvements in both performance and compression rate on multi-hop question-answering benchmarks. CompAct flexibly operates as a cost-efficient plug-in module with various off-the-shelf retrievers or readers, achieving exceptionally high compression rates (47x)."}
{"Title": "An Empirical Analysis on Spatial Reasoning Capabilities of Large Multimodal Models", "Abstract": "Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) have achieved strong performance across a range of vision and language tasks. However, their spatial reasoning capabilities are under-investigated. In this paper, we construct a novel VQA dataset, Spatial-MM, to comprehensively study LMMs{'} spatial understanding and reasoning capabilities. Our analyses on object-relationship and multi-hop reasoning reveal several important findings. Firstly, bounding boxes and scene graphs, even synthetic ones, can significantly enhance LMMs{'} spatial reasoning. Secondly, LMMs struggle more with questions posed from the human perspective than the camera perspective about the image. Thirdly, chain of thought (CoT) prompting does not improve model performance on complex multi-hop questions involving spatial relations. Moreover, spatial reasoning steps are much less accurate than non-spatial ones across MLLMs. Lastly, our perturbation analysis on GQA-spatial reveals that LMMs are much stronger at basic object detection than complex spatial reasoning. We believe our new benchmark dataset and in-depth analyses can spark further research on LMMs spatial reasoning."}
{"Title": "Synthetic Knowledge Ingestion: Towards Knowledge Refinement and Injection for Enhancing Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are proficient in capturing factual knowledge across various domains. However, refining their capabilities on previously seen knowledge or integrating new knowledge from external sources remains a significant challenge. In this work, we propose a novel synthetic knowledge ingestion method called , which leverages fine-grained synthesis, interleaved generation, and assemble augmentation strategies to construct high-quality data representations from raw knowledge sources. We then integrate and its variations with three knowledge injection techniques: Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), Supervised Fine-tuning (SFT), and Continual Pre-training (CPT) to inject and refine knowledge in language models. Extensive empirical experiments are conducted on various question-answering tasks spanning finance, biomedicine, and open-generation domains to demonstrate that significantly outperforms baseline methods by facilitating effective knowledge injection. We believe that our work is an important step towards enhancing the factual accuracy of LLM outputs by refining knowledge representation and injection capabilities."}
{"Title": "Local Contrastive Editing of Gender Stereotypes", "Abstract": "Stereotypical bias encoded in language models (LMs) poses a threat to safe language technology, yet our understanding of how bias manifests in the parameters of LMs remains incomplete. We introduce local contrastive editing that enables the localization and editing of a subset of weights in a target model in relation to a reference model. We deploy this approach to identify and modify subsets of weights that are associated with gender stereotypes in LMs. Through a series of experiments we demonstrate that local contrastive editing can precisely localize and control a small subset ($< 0.5\\%$) of weights that encode gender bias. Our work (i) advances our understanding of how stereotypical biases can manifest in the parameter space of LMs and (ii) opens up new avenues for developing parameter-efficient strategies for controlling model properties in a contrastive manner."}
{"Title": "De-Identification of Sensitive Personal Data in Datasets Derived from IIT-CDIP", "Abstract": "The IIT-CDIP document collection is the source of several widely used and publicly accessible document understanding datasets. In this paper, manual inspection of 5 datasets derived from IIT-CDIP uncovers the presence of thousands of instances of sensitive personal data, including US Social Security Numbers (SSNs), birth places and dates, and home addresses of individuals. The presence of such sensitive personal data in commonly-used and publicly available datasets is startling and has ethical and potentially legal implications; we believe such sensitive data ought to be removed from the internet. Thus, in this paper, we develop a modular data de-identification pipeline that replaces sensitive data with synthetic, but realistic, data. Via experiments, we demonstrate that this de-identification method preserves the utility of the de-identified documents so that they can continue be used in various document understanding applications. We will release redacted versions of these datasets publicly."}
{"Title": "RAR: Retrieval-augmented retrieval for code generation in low resource languages", "Abstract": "Language models struggle in generating code for low-resource programming languages, since these are underrepresented in training data. Either examples or documentation are commonly used for improved code generation. We propose to use both types of information together and present retrieval augmented retrieval (RAR) as a two-step method for selecting relevant examples and documentation. Experiments on three low-resource languages (Power Query M, OfficeScript and Excel formulas) show that RAR outperforms independently example and grammar retrieval (+2.81{--}26.14{\\%}). Interestingly, we show that two-step retrieval selects better examples and documentation when used independently as well."}
{"Title": "STAR: SocioTechnical Approach to Red Teaming Language Models", "Abstract": "This research introduces STAR, a sociotechnical framework that improves on current best practices for red teaming safety of large language models. STAR makes two key contributions: it enhances steerability by generating parameterised instructions for human red teamers, leading to improved coverage of the risk surface. Parameterised instructions also provide more detailed insights into model failures at no increased cost. Second, STAR improves signal quality by matching demographics to assess harms for specific groups, resulting in more sensitive annotations. STAR further employs a novel step of arbitration to leverage diverse viewpoints and improve label reliability, treating disagreement not as noise but as a valuable contribution to signal quality."}
{"Title": "Do great minds think alike? Investigating Human-AI Complementarity in Question Answering with CAIMIRA", "Abstract": "Recent advancements of large language models (LLMs)have led to claims of AI surpassing humansin natural language processing NLP tasks such as textual understanding and reasoning.{\\%}This work investigates these assertions by introducingCAIMIRA, a novel framework rooted in item response theory IRTthat enables quantitative assessment and comparison of problem-solving abilities inquestion-answering QA agents.{\\%}Through analysis of over 300,000 responses from {\\textasciitilde} 70 AI systemsand 155 humans across thousands of quiz questions, CAIMIRA uncovers distinctproficiency patterns in knowledge domains and reasoning skills. {\\%}Humans outperform AI systems in knowledge-grounded abductive and conceptual reasoning,while state-of-the-art LLMs like GPT-4 Turbo and Llama-3-70B demonstrate superior performance ontargeted information retrieval and fact-based reasoning, particularly when information gapsare well-defined and addressable through pattern matching or data retrieval.{\\%}These findings identify key areas for future QA tasks and model development,highlighting the critical need for questions that not only challengehigher-order reasoning and scientific thinking, but also demand nuanced linguisticand cross-contextual application."}
{"Title": "Memory-Efficient Fine-Tuning of Transformers via Token Selection", "Abstract": "Fine-tuning provides an effective means to specialize pre-trained models for various downstream tasks. However, fine-tuning often incurs high memory overhead, especially for large transformer-based models, such as LLMs. While existing methods may reduce certain parts of the memory required for fine-tuning, they still require caching all intermediate activations computed in the forward pass to update weights during the backward pass. In this work, we develop TokenTune, a method to reduce memory usage, specifically the memory to store intermediate activations, in the fine-tuning of transformer-based models. During the backward pass, TokenTune approximates the gradient computation by backpropagating through just a subset of input tokens. Thus, with TokenTune, only a subset of intermediate activations are cached during the forward pass. Also, TokenTune can be easily combined with existing methods like LoRA, further reducing the memory cost. We evaluate our approach on pre-trained transformer models with up to billions of parameters, considering the performance on multiple downstream tasks such as text classification and question answering in a few-shot learning setup. Overall, TokenTune achieves performance on par with full fine-tuning or representative memory-efficient fine-tuning methods, while greatly reducing the memory footprint, especially when combined with other methods with complementary memory reduction mechanisms. We hope that our approach will facilitate the fine-tuning of large transformers, in specializing them for specific domains or co-training them with other neural components from a larger system. Our code is available at https://github.com/facebookresearch/tokentune."}
{"Title": "Unveiling the mystery of visual attributes of concrete and abstract concepts: Variability, nearest neighbors, and challenging categories", "Abstract": "The visual representation of a concept varies significantly depending on its meaning and the context where it occurs; this poses multiple challenges both for vision and multimodal models. Our study focuses on concreteness, a well-researched lexical-semantic variable, using it as a case study to examine the variability in visual representations. We rely on images associated with approximately 1,000 abstract and concrete concepts extracted from two different datasets: Bing and YFCC. Our goals are: (i) evaluate whether visual diversity in the depiction of concepts can reliably distinguish between concrete and abstract concepts; (ii) analyze the variability of visual features across multiple images of the same concept through a nearest neighbor analysis; and (iii) identify challenging factors contributing to this variability by categorizing and annotating images. Our findings indicate that for classifying images of abstract versus concrete concepts, a combination of basic visual features such as color and texture is more effective than features extracted by more complex models like Vision Transformer (ViT). However, ViTs show better performances in the nearest neighbor analysis, emphasizing the need for a careful selection of visual features when analyzing conceptual variables through modalities other than text."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Large Language Models on Time Series Feature Understanding: A Comprehensive Taxonomy and Benchmark", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) offer the potential for automatic time series analysis and reporting, which is a critical task across many domains, spanning healthcare, finance, climate, energy, and many more. In this paper, we propose a framework for rigorously evaluating the capabilities of LLMs on time series understanding, encompassing both univariate and multivariate forms. We introduce a comprehensive taxonomy of time series features, a critical framework that delineates various characteristics inherent in time series data. Leveraging this taxonomy, we have systematically designed and synthesized a diverse dataset of time series, embodying the different outlined features, each accompanied by textual descriptions. This dataset acts as a solid foundation for assessing the proficiency of LLMs in comprehending time series. Our experiments shed light on the strengths and limitations of state-of-the-art LLMs in time series understanding, revealing which features these models readily comprehend effectively and where they falter. In addition, we uncover the sensitivity of LLMs to factors including the formatting of the data, the position of points queried within a series and the overall time series length."}
{"Title": "Can LLMs Learn Uncertainty on Their Own? Expressing Uncertainty Effectively in A Self-Training Manner", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) often exhibit excessive, random, and uninformative uncertainty, rendering them unsuitable for decision-making in human-computer interactions. In this paper, we aim to instigate a heightened awareness of self-uncertainty in LLMs, enabling them to express uncertainty more effectively. To accomplish this, we propose an uncertainty-aware instruction tuning (UaIT) method, aligning LLMs{'} perception with the probabilistic uncertainty of the generation. We conducted experiments using LLaMA2 and Mistral on multiple free-form QA tasks. Experimental results revealed a surprising 45.2{\\%} improvement in the effectiveness of uncertainty expression by LLMs, accompanied by reasonably good out-of-domain generalization capabilities. Moreover, this uncertainty expression can serve as a valuable real-time basis for human decision-making, e.g., retrieving external documents and incorporating stronger LLMs."}
{"Title": "Preference-Guided Reflective Sampling for Aligning Language Models", "Abstract": "Iterative data generation and model re-training can effectively align large language models (LLMs) to human preferences. The process of data sampling is crucial, as it significantly influences the success of policy improvement. Repeated random sampling is a widely used method that independently queries the model multiple times to generate outputs. In this work, we propose a more effective sampling method, named Preference-Guided Reflective Sampling (PRS). Unlike random sampling, PRS employs a tree-based generation framework to enable more efficient sampling. It leverages adaptive self-refinement techniques to better explore the sampling space. By specifying user preferences in natural language, PRS can further optimize response generation according to these preferences. As a result, PRS can align models to diverse user preferences. Our experiments demonstrate that PRS generates higher-quality responses with significantly higher rewards. On AlpacaEval and Arena-Hard, PRS substantially outperforms repeated random sampling in best-of-$N$ sampling. Moreover, PRS shows strong performance when applied in iterative offline RL training."}
{"Title": "Metrics for What, Metrics for Whom: Assessing Actionability of Bias Evaluation Metrics in NLP", "Abstract": "This paper introduces the concept of actionability in the context of bias measures in natural language processing (NLP). We define actionability as the degree to which a measure{'}s results enable informed action and propose a set of desiderata for assessing it. Building on existing frameworks such as measurement modeling, we argue that actionability is a crucial aspect of bias measures that has been largely overlooked in the literature.We conduct a comprehensive review of 146 papers proposing bias measures in NLP, examining whether and how they provide the information required for actionable results. Our findings reveal that many key elements of actionability, including a measure{'}s intended use and reliability assessment, are often unclear or entirely absent.This study highlights a significant gap in the current approach to developing and reporting bias measures in NLP. We argue that this lack of clarity may impede the effective implementation and utilization of these measures. To address this issue, we offer recommendations for more comprehensive and actionable metric development and reporting practices in NLP bias research."}
{"Title": "Is this the real life? Is this just fantasy? The Misleading Success of Simulating Social Interactions With LLMs", "Abstract": "Recent advances in large language models (LLM) have enabled richer social simulations, allowing for the study of various social phenomena. However, most recent work has used a more omniscient perspective on these simulations (e.g., single LLM to generate all interlocutors), which is fundamentally at odds with the non-omniscient, information asymmetric interactions that involve humans and AI agents in the real world. To examine these differences, we develop an evaluation framework to simulate social interactions with LLMs in various settings (omniscient, non-omniscient). Our experiments show that LLMs perform better in unrealistic, omniscient simulation settings but struggle in ones that more accurately reflect real-world conditions with information asymmetry. Moreover, we illustrate the limitations inherent in learning from omniscient simulations. Our findings indicate that addressing information asymmetry remains a fundamental challenge for LLM-based agents."}
{"Title": "A Simple LLM Framework for Long-Range Video Question-Answering", "Abstract": "We present LLoVi, a simple yet effective **L**anguage-based **Lo**ng-range **Vi**deo question-answering (LVQA) framework. Our method decomposes the short- and long-range modeling aspects of LVQA into two stages. First, we use a short-term visual captioner to generate textual descriptions of short video clips (0.5-8 seconds in length) densely sampled from a long input video. Afterward, an LLM aggregates the densely extracted short-term captions to answer a given question. Furthermore, we propose a novel multi-round summarization prompt that asks the LLM first to summarize the noisy short-term visual captions and then answer a given input question. To analyze what makes our simple framework so effective, we thoroughly evaluate various components of our framework. Our empirical analysis reveals that the choice of the visual captioner and LLM is critical for good LVQA performance. The proposed multi-round summarization prompt also leads to a significant LVQA performance boost. Our method achieves the best-reported results on the EgoSchema dataset, best known for very long-form video question-answering. LLoVi also outperforms the previous state-of-the-art by **10.2{\\%}** and **6.2{\\%}** on NExT-QA and IntentQA for LVQA. Finally, we extend LLoVi to grounded VideoQA, which requires both QA and temporal localization, and show that it outperforms all prior methods on NExT-GQA. Code is available at https://github.com/CeeZh/LLoVi."}
{"Title": "Rebuilding ROME : Resolving Model Collapse during Sequential Model Editing", "Abstract": "Recent work using Rank-One Model Editing (ROME), a popular model editing method, has shown that there are certain facts that the algorithm is unable to edit without breaking the model. Such edits have previously been called disabling edits. These disabling edits cause immediate model collapse and limits the use of ROME for sequential editing. In this paper, we show that disabling edits are an artifact of irregularities in the implementation of ROME. With this paper, we provide a more stable implementation ROME, which we call r-ROME and show that model collapse is no longer observed when making large scale sequential edits with r-ROME, while further improving generalization and locality of model editing compared to the original implementation of ROME. We also provide a detailed mathematical explanation of the reason behind disabling edits."}
{"Title": "Casablanca: Data and Models for Multidialectal Arabic Speech Recognition", "Abstract": "In spite of the recent progress in speech processing, the majority of world languages and dialects remain uncovered. This situation only furthers an already wide technological divide, thereby hindering technological and socioeconomic inclusion. This challenge is largely due to the absence of datasets that can empower diverse speech systems. In this paper, we seek to mitigate this obstacle for a number of Arabic dialects by presenting Casablanca, a large-scale community-driven effort to collect and transcribe a multi-dialectal Arabic dataset. The dataset covers eight dialects: Algerian, Egyptian, Emirati, Jordanian, Mauritanian, Moroccan, Palestinian, and Yemeni, and includes annotations for transcription, gender, dialect, and code-switching. We also develop a number of strong baselines exploiting Casablanca. The project page for Casablanca is accessible at: www.dlnlp.ai/speech/casablanca."}
{"Title": "Safety Arithmetic: A Framework for Test-time Safety Alignment of Language Models by Steering Parameters and Activations", "Abstract": "Ensuring the safe alignment of large language models (LLMs) with human values is critical as they become integral to applications like translation and question answering. Current alignment methods struggle with dynamic user intentions and complex objectives, making models vulnerable to generating harmful content. We propose Safety Arithmetic, a training-free framework enhancing LLM safety across different scenarios: Base models, Supervised fine-tuned models (SFT), and Edited models. Safety Arithmetic involves Harm Direction Removal to avoid harmful content and Safety Alignment to promote safe responses. Additionally, we present NoIntentEdit, a dataset highlighting edit instances that could compromise model safety if used unintentionally. Our experiments show that Safety Arithmetic significantly improves safety measures, reduces over-safety, and maintains model utility, outperforming existing methods in ensuring safe content generation."}
{"Title": "Communicating with Speakers and Listeners of Different Pragmatic Levels", "Abstract": "This paper explores the impact of variable pragmatic competence on communicative success through simulating language learning and conversing between speakers and listeners with different levels of reasoning abilities. Through studying this interaction, we hypothesize that matching levels of reasoning between communication partners would create a more beneficial environment for communicative success and language learning. Our research findings indicate that learning from more explicit, literal language is advantageous, irrespective of the learner{'}s level of pragmatic competence. Furthermore, we find that integrating pragmatic reasoning during language learning, not just during evaluation, significantly enhances overall communication performance. This paper provides key insights into the importance of aligning reasoning levels and incorporating pragmatic reasoning in optimizing communicative interactions."}
{"Title": "RECANTFormer: Referring Expression Comprehension with Varying Numbers of Targets", "Abstract": "The Generalized Referring Expression Comprehension (GREC) task extends classic REC by generating image bounding boxes for objects referred to in natural language expressions, which may indicate zero, one, or multiple targets. This generalization enhances the practicality of REC models for diverse real-world applications. However, the presence of varying numbers of targets in samples makes GREC a more complex task, both in terms of training supervision and final prediction selection strategy. Addressing these challenges, we introduce RECANTFormer, a one-stage method for GREC that combines a decoder-free (encoder-only) transformer architecture with DETR-like Hungarian matching. Our approach consistently outperforms baselines by significant margins in three GREC datasets."}
{"Title": "Sprout: Green Generative AI with Carbon-Efficient LLM Inference", "Abstract": "The rapid advancement of generative AI has heightened environmental concerns, particularly regarding carbon emissions. Our framework, Sprout, addresses these challenges by reducing the carbon footprint of inference in large language models (LLMs). Sprout introduces {``}generation directives{''} to guide the autoregressive generation process, achieving a balance between ecological sustainability and high-quality outputs. By employing a strategic optimizer for directive assignment and a novel offline quality evaluator, Sprout reduces the carbon footprint of generative LLM inference by over 40{\\%} in real-world evaluations, using the Llama model and global electricity grid data. This work is crucial as the rising interest in inference time compute scaling laws amplifies environmental concerns, emphasizing the need for eco-friendly AI solutions."}
{"Title": "Do LLMs Plan Like Human Writers? Comparing Journalist Coverage of Press Releases with LLMs", "Abstract": "Journalists engage in multiple steps in the news writing process that depend on human creativity, like exploring different {``}angles{''} (i.e. the specific perspectives a reporter takes). These can potentially be aided by large language models (LLMs). By affecting planning decisions, such interventions can have an outsize impact on creative output. We advocate a careful approach to evaluating these interventions to ensure alignment with human values.In a case study of journalistic coverage of press releases, we assemble a large dataset of 250k press releases and 650k articles covering them. We develop methods to identify news articles that {\\_}challenge and contextualize{\\_} press releases. Finally, we evaluate suggestions made by LLMs for these articles and compare these with decisions made by human journalists. Our findings are three-fold: (1) Human-written news articles that challenge and contextualize press releases more take more creative angles and use more informational sources. (2) LLMs align better with humans when recommending angles, compared with informational sources. (3) Both the angles and sources LLMs suggest are significantly less creative than humans."}
{"Title": "T-FREE: Subword Tokenizer-Free Generative LLMs via Sparse Representations for Memory-Efficient Embeddings", "Abstract": "Tokenizers are crucial for encoding information in Large Language Models, but their development has recently stagnated, and they contain inherent weaknesses. Major limitations include computational overhead, ineffective vocabulary use, and unnecessarily large embedding and head layers. Additionally, their performance is biased towards a reference corpus, leading to reduced effectiveness for underrepresented languages.To remedy these issues, we propose T-Free, which directly embeds words through sparse activation patterns over character triplets and does not require a reference corpus. T-Free inherently exploits morphological similarities and allows for strong compression of embedding layers. In our exhaustive experimental evaluation, we achieve competitive downstream performance with a parameter reduction of more than 85{\\%} on these layers. Further, T-Free shows significant improvements in cross-lingual transfer learning."}
{"Title": "SpeechQE: Estimating the Quality of Direct Speech Translation", "Abstract": "Recent advances in automatic quality estimation for machine translation have exclusively focused on written language, leaving the speech modality underexplored. In this work, we formulate the task of quality estimation for speech translation (SpeechQE), construct a benchmark, and evaluate a family of systems based on cascaded and end-to-end architectures. In this process, we introduce a novel end-to-end system leveraging pre-trained text LLM. Results suggest that end-to-end approaches are better suited to estimating the quality of direct speech translation than using quality estimation systems designed for text in cascaded systems. More broadly, we argue that quality estimation of speech translation needs to be studied as a separate problem from that of text, and release our [data and models](https://github.com/h-j-han/SpeechQE) to guide further research in this space."}
{"Title": "Assessing and Verifying Task Utility in LLM-Powered Applications", "Abstract": "The rapid development of Large Language Models (LLMs) has led to a surge in applications that facilitate collaboration among multiple agents, assisting humans in their daily tasks. However, a significant gap remains in assessing to what extent LLM-powered applications genuinely enhance user experience and task execution efficiency. This highlights the need to verify utility of LLM-powered applications, particularly by ensuring alignment between the application{'}s functionality and end-user needs. We introduce AgentEval, a novel framework designed to simplify the utility verification process by automatically proposing a set of criteria tailored to the unique purpose of any given application. This allows for a comprehensive assessment, quantifying the utility of an application against the suggested criteria. We present a comprehensive analysis of the effectiveness and robustness of AgentEval for two open source datasets including Math Problem solving and ALFWorld House-hold related tasks. For reproducibility purposes, we make the data, code and all the logs publicly available at https://github.com/Narabzad/AgentEval"}
{"Title": "Dynamic Rewarding with Prompt Optimization Enables Tuning-free Self-Alignment of Language Models", "Abstract": "Aligning Large Language Models (LLMs) traditionally relies on complex and costly training processes like supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF). To address the challenge of achieving alignment without these extensive tuning costs and expensive annotations, we present a novel, tuning-free approach for self-alignment called Dynamic Rewarding with Prompt Optimization (DRPO). Our approach enables self-alignment through a search-based prompt optimization framework, allowing the model to self-improve and generate optimized prompts without additional training or human supervision. The core of DRPO leverages a dynamic rewarding mechanism to identify and rectify model-specific alignment weaknesses, enabling LLMs to adapt quickly to various alignment challenges. Empirical evaluations on eight recent LLMs, including both open- and closed-source, reveal that DRPO significantly enhances alignment performance, enabling base models to outperform their SFT/RLHF-tuned counterparts. Moreover, DRPO{'}s automatically optimized prompts surpass those curated by human experts, demonstrating its superior alignment capabilities. Our findings envision a highly cost-effective and adaptable solution for future alignment research to be further explored."}
{"Title": "Accurate and Data-Efficient Toxicity Prediction when Annotators Disagree", "Abstract": "When annotators disagree, predicting the labels given by individual annotators can capture nuances overlooked by traditional label aggregation. We introduce three approaches to predict individual annotator ratings on the toxicity of text by incorporating individual annotator-specific information: a neural collaborative filtering (NCF) approach, an in-context learning (ICL) approach, and an intermediate embedding-based architecture. We also study the utility of demographic information for rating prediction. NCF showed limited utility; however, integrating annotator history, demographics, and survey information permits both the embedding-based architecture and ICL to substantially improve prediction accuracy, with the embedding-based architecture outperforming the other methods. We also find that, if demographics are predicted from survey information, using these imputed demographics as features performs comparably to using true demographic data. This suggests that demographics may not provide substantial information for modeling ratings beyond what is captured in survey responses. Our findings raise considerations about the relative utility of different types of annotator information and provide new approaches for modeling annotators in subjective NLP tasks."}
{"Title": "Adversarial Text Generation using Large Language Models for Dementia Detection", "Abstract": "Although large language models (LLMs) excel in various text classification tasks, regular prompting strategies (e.g., few-shot prompting) do not work well with dementia detection via picture description. The challenge lies in the language marks for dementia are unclear, and LLM may struggle with relating its internal knowledge to dementia detection. In this paper, we present an accurate and interpretable classification approach by Adversarial Text Generation (ATG), a novel decoding strategy that could relate dementia detection with other tasks. We further develop a comprehensive set of instructions corresponding to various tasks and use them to guide ATG, achieving the best accuracy of 85{\\%}, {\\textgreater}10{\\%} improvement compared to the regular prompting strategies. In addition, we introduce feature context, a human-understandable text that reveals the underlying features of LLM used for classifying dementia. From feature contexts, we found that dementia detection can be related to tasks such as assessing attention to detail, language, and clarity with specific features of the environment, character, and other picture content or language-related features. Future work includes incorporating multi-modal LLMs to interpret speech and picture information."}
{"Title": "xCOMET-lite: Bridging the Gap Between Efficiency and Quality in Learned MT Evaluation Metrics", "Abstract": "State-of-the-art trainable machine translation evaluation metrics like xCOMET achieve high correlation with human judgment but rely on large encoders (up to 10.7B parameters), making them computationally expensive and inaccessible to researchers with limited resources. To address this issue, we investigate whether the knowledge stored in these large encoders can be compressed while maintaining quality. We employ distillation, quantization, and pruning techniques to create efficient xCOMET alternatives and introduce a novel data collection pipeline for efficient black-box distillation. Our experiments show that, using quantization, xCOMET can be compressed up to three times with no quality degradation. Additionally, through distillation, we create an 278M-sized xCOMET-lite metric, which has only 2.6{\\%} of xCOMET-XXL parameters, but retains 92.1{\\%} of its quality. Besides, it surpasses strong small-scale metrics like COMET-22 and BLEURT-20 on the WMT22 metrics challenge dataset by 6.4{\\%}, despite using 50{\\%} fewer parameters. All code, dataset, and models are available online."}
{"Title": "The Greatest Good Benchmark: Measuring LLMs' Alignment with Utilitarian Moral Dilemmas", "Abstract": "The question of how to make decisions that maximise the well-being of all persons is very relevant to design language models that are beneficial to humanity and free from harm. We introduce the Greatest Good Benchmark to evaluate the moral judgments of LLMs using utilitarian dilemmas. Our analysis across 15 diverse LLMs reveals consistently encoded moral preferences that diverge from established moral theories and lay population moral standards. Most LLMs have a marked preference for impartial beneficence and rejection of instrumental harm. These findings showcase the {`}artificial moral compass{'} of LLMs, offering insights into their moral alignment."}
{"Title": "FairFlow: Mitigating Dataset Biases through Undecided Learning for Natural Language Understanding", "Abstract": "Language models are prone to dataset biases, known as shortcuts and spurious correlations in data, which often result in performance drop on new data. We present a new debiasing framework called FairFlow that mitigates dataset biases by learning to be \\textit{undecided} in its predictions for data samples or representations associated with known or unknown biases. The framework introduces two key components: a suite of data and model perturbation operations that generate different biased views of input samples, and a contrastive objective that learns debiased and robust representations from the resulting biased views of samples. Experiments show that FairFlow outperforms existing debiasing methods, particularly against out-of-domain and hard test samples without compromising the in-domain performance."}
{"Title": "Style-Shifting Behaviour of the Manosphere on Reddit", "Abstract": "Hate speech groups (HSGs) may negatively influence online platforms through their distinctive language, which may affect the tone and topics of other spaces if spread beyond the HSGs. We explore the linguistic style of the Manosphere, a misogynistic HSG, on Reddit. We find that Manospheric authors have a distinct linguistic style using not only uncivil language, but a greater focus on gendered topics, which are retained when posting in other communities. Thus, potentially harmful aspects of Manospheric style carry over into posts on non-Manospheric subreddits, motivating future work to explore how this stylistic spillover may negatively influence community health."}
{"Title": "The Death and Life of Great Prompts: Analyzing the Evolution of LLM Prompts from the Structural Perspective", "Abstract": "Effective utilization of large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, relies on the quality of input prompts. This paper explores prompt engineering, specifically focusing on the disparity between experimentally designed prompts and real-world {``}in-the-wild{''} prompts. We analyze 10,538 in-the-wild prompts collected from various platforms and develop a framework that decomposes the prompts into eight key components. Our analysis shows that and Requirement are the most prevalent two components. Roles specified in the prompts, along with their capabilities, have become increasingly varied over time, signifying a broader range of application scenarios for LLMs. However, from the response of GPT-4, there is a marginal improvement with a specified role, whereas leveraging less prevalent components such as Capability and Demonstration can result in a more satisfying response. Overall, our work sheds light on the essential components of in-the-wild prompts and the effectiveness of these components on the broader landscape of LLM prompt engineering, providing valuable guidelines for the LLM community to optimize high-quality prompts."}
{"Title": "Holistic Evaluation for Interleaved Text-and-Image Generation", "Abstract": "Interleaved text-and-image generation has been an intriguing research direction, where the models are required to generate both images and text pieces in an arbitrary order. Despite the emerging advancements in interleaved generation, the progress in its evaluation still significantly lags behind. Existing evaluation benchmarks do not support arbitrarily interleaved images and text for both inputs and outputs, and they only cover a limited number of domains and use cases. Also, current works predominantly use similarity-based metrics which fall short in assessing the quality in open-ended scenarios. To this end, we introduce InterleavedBench, the first benchmark carefully curated for the evaluation of interleaved text-and-image generation. InterleavedBench features a rich array of tasks to cover diverse real-world use cases. In addition, we present InterleavedEval, a strong reference-free metric powered by GPT-4o to deliver accurate and explainable evaluation. We carefully define five essential evaluation aspects for InterleavedEval, including text quality, perceptual quality, image coherence, text-image coherence, and helpfulness, to ensure a comprehensive and fine-grained assessment. Through extensive experiments and rigorous human evaluation, we show that our benchmark and metric can effectively evaluate the existing models with a strong correlation with human judgments surpassing previous reference-based metrics. We also provide substantial findings and insights to foster future research in interleaved generation and its evaluation."}
{"Title": "FOLIO: Natural Language Reasoning with First-Order Logic", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable performance on a variety of natural language understanding tasks. However, existing benchmarks are inadequate in measuring the complex logical reasoning capabilities of a model. We present FOLIO, a human-annotated, logically complex and diverse dataset for reasoning in natural language (NL), equipped with first-order logic (FOL) annotations. FOLIO consists of 1,430 examples (unique conclusions), each paired with one of 487 sets of premises used to deductively reason for the validity of each conclusion. The logical correctness of the premises and conclusions is ensured by their FOL annotations, which are automatically verified by an FOL inference engine. In addition to the main NL reasoning task, NL-FOL pairs in FOLIO constitute a new NL-FOL translation dataset. Our experiments on FOLIO systematically evaluate the FOL reasoning ability of supervised fine-tuning on medium-sized language models. For both NL reasoning and NL-FOL translation, we benchmark multiple state-of-the-art language models. Our results show that a subset of FOLIO remains a challenge for one of the most capable Large Language Model (LLM) publicly available, GPT-4."}
{"Title": "The LLM Effect: Are Humans Truly Using LLMs, or Are They Being Influenced By Them Instead?", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown capabilities close to human performance in various analytical tasks, leading researchers to use them for time and labor-intensive analyses. However, their capability to handle highly specialized and open-ended tasks in domains like policy studies remains in question. This paper investigates the efficiency and accuracy of LLMs in specialized tasks through a structured user study focusing on Human-LLM partnership. The study, conducted in two stages{---}Topic Discovery and Topic Assignment{---}integrates LLMs with expert annotators to observe the impact of LLM suggestions on what is usually human-only analysis. Results indicate that LLM-generated topic lists have significant overlap with human generated topic lists, with minor hiccups in missing document-specific topics. However, LLM suggestions may significantly improve task completion speed, but at the same time introduce anchoring bias, potentially affecting the depth and nuance of the analysis, raising a critical question about the trade-off between increased efficiency and the risk of biased analysis."}
{"Title": "Is Child-Directed Speech Effective Training Data for Language Models?", "Abstract": "While high-performing language models are typically trained on hundreds of billions of words, human children become fluent language users with a much smaller amount of data. What are the features of the data they receive, and how do these features support language modeling objectives? To investigate this question, we train GPT-2 and RoBERTa models on 29M words of English child-directed speech and a new matched, synthetic dataset (TinyDialogues), comparing to OpenSubtitles, Wikipedia, and a heterogeneous blend of datasets from the BabyLM challenge. We evaluate the syntactic and semantic knowledge of these models using developmentally-inspired evaluations. Through pretraining experiments, we test whether the global developmental ordering or the local discourse ordering of children{'}s training data supports high performance relative to other datasets. The local properties of the data affect model results, but surprisingly, global properties do not. Further, child language input is not uniquely valuable for training language models. These findings support the hypothesis that, rather than proceeding from better data, the child{'}s learning algorithm is substantially more data-efficient than current language modeling techniques."}
{"Title": "RevMUX: Data Multiplexing with Reversible Adapters for Efficient LLM Batch Inference", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have brought a great breakthrough to the natural language processing (NLP) community, while leading the challenge of handling concurrent customer queries due to their high throughput demands. Data multiplexing addresses this by merging multiple inputs into a single composite input, allowing more efficient inference through a shared forward pass. However, as distinguishing individuals from a composite input is challenging, conventional methods typically require training the entire backbone, yet still suffer from performance degradation. In this paper, we introduce RevMUX, a parameter-efficient data multiplexing framework that incorporates a reversible design in the multiplexer, which can be reused by the demultiplexer to perform reverse operations and restore individual samples for classification. Extensive experiments on four datasets and three types of LLM backbones demonstrate the effectiveness of RevMUX for enhancing LLM inference efficiency while retaining a satisfactory classification performance."}
{"Title": "Inference Helps PLMs' Conceptual Understanding: Improving the Abstract Inference Ability with Hierarchical Conceptual Entailment Graphs", "Abstract": "The abstract inference capability of the Language Model plays a pivotal role in boosting its generalization and reasoning prowess in Natural Language Inference (NLI). Entailment graphs are crafted precisely for this purpose, focusing on learning entailment relations among predicates. Yet, prevailing approaches overlook the *polysemy* and *hierarchical nature of concepts* during entity conceptualization. This oversight disregards how arguments might entail differently across various concept levels, thereby missing potential entailment connections. To tackle this hurdle, we introduce the *concept pyramid* and propose the HiCon-EG (Hierarchical Conceptual Entailment Graph) framework, which organizes arguments hierarchically, delving into entailment relations at diverse concept levels. By learning entailment relationships at different concept levels, the model is guided to better understand concepts so as to improve its abstract inference capabilities. Our method enhances scalability and efficiency in acquiring common-sense knowledge through leveraging statistical language distribution instead of manual labeling, Experimental results show that entailment relations derived from HiCon-EG significantly bolster abstract detection tasks. Our code is available at https://github.com/SXUCFN/HiCon-EG"}
{"Title": "M3Hop-CoT: Misogynous Meme Identification with Multimodal Multi-hop Chain-of-Thought", "Abstract": "In recent years, there has been a significant rise in the phenomenon of hate against women on social media platforms, particularly through the use of misogynous memes. These memes often target women with subtle and obscure cues, making their detection a challenging task for automated systems. Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown promising results in reasoning using Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting to generate the intermediate reasoning chains as the rationale to facilitate multimodal tasks, but often neglect cultural diversity and key aspects like emotion and contextual knowledge hidden in the visual modalities. To address this gap, we introduce a **M**ultimodal **M**ulti-hop CoT (M3Hop-CoT) framework for **M**isogynous meme identification, combining a CLIP-based classifier and a multimodal CoT module with entity-object-relationship integration. M3Hop-CoT employs a three-step multimodal prompting principle to induce emotions, target awareness, and contextual knowledge for meme analysis. Our empirical evaluation, including both qualitative and quantitative analysis, validates the efficacy of the M3Hop-CoT framework on the SemEval-2022 Task 5 (**MAMI task**) dataset, highlighting its strong performance in the macro-F1 score. Furthermore, we evaluate the model{'}s generalizability by evaluating it on various benchmark meme datasets, offering a thorough insight into the effectiveness of our approach across different datasets. Codes are available at this link: https://github.com/Gitanjali1801/LLM{\\_}CoT"}
{"Title": "GPT-4 Jailbreaks Itself with Near-Perfect Success Using Self-Explanation", "Abstract": "Research on jailbreaking has been valuable for testing and understanding the safety and security issues of large language models (LLMs). In this paper, we introduce Iterative Refinement Induced Self-Jailbreak (IRIS), a novel approach that leverages the reflective capabilities of LLMs for jailbreaking with only black-box access. Unlike previous methods, IRIS simplifies the jailbreaking process by using a single model as both the attacker and target. This method first iteratively refines adversarial prompts through self-explanation, which is crucial for ensuring that even well-aligned LLMs obey adversarial instructions. IRIS then rates and enhances the output given the refined prompt to increase its harmfulness. We find that IRIS achieves jailbreak success rates of 98{\\%} on GPT-4, 92{\\%} on GPT-4 Turbo, and 94{\\%} on Llama-3.1-70B in under 7 queries. It significantly outperforms prior approaches in automatic, black-box, and interpretable jailbreaking, while requiring substantially fewer queries, thereby establishing a new standard for interpretable jailbreaking methods."}
{"Title": "RE-RAG: Improving Open-Domain QA Performance and Interpretability with Relevance Estimator in Retrieval-Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "The Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) framework utilizes a combination of parametric knowledge and external knowledge to demonstrate state-of-the-art performance on open-domain question answering tasks. However, the RAG framework suffers from performance degradation when the query is accompanied by irrelevant contexts. In this work, we propose the RE-RAG framework, which introduces a relevance estimator (RE) that not only provides relative relevance between contexts as previous rerankers did, but also provide confidence, which can be used to classify whether given context is useful for answering the given question. We propose a weakly supervised method for training the RE simply utilizing question-answer data without any labels for correct contexts. We show that RE trained with a small generator (sLM) can not only improve the sLM fine-tuned together with RE but also improve previously unreferenced large language models (LLMs). Furthermore, we investigate new decoding strategies that utilize the proposed confidence measured by RE such as choosing to let the user know that it is {``}unanswerable{''} to answer the question given the retrieved contexts or choosing to rely on LLM{'}s parametric knowledge rather than unrelated contexts."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Concurrent Robustness of Language Models Across Diverse Challenge Sets", "Abstract": "Language models, characterized by their black-box nature, often hallucinate and display sensitivity to input perturbations, causing concerns about trust. To enhance trust, it is imperative to gain a comprehensive understanding of the model{'}s failure modes and develop effective strategies to improve their performance. In this study, we introduce a methodology designed to examine how input perturbations affect language models across various scales, including pre-trained models and large language models (LLMs). Utilizing fine-tuning, we enhance the model{'}s robustness to input perturbations. Additionally, we investigate whether exposure to one perturbation enhances or diminishes the model{'}s performance with respect to other perturbations. To address robustness against multiple perturbations, we present three distinct fine-tuning strategies. Furthermore, we broaden the scope of our methodology to encompass large language models (LLMs) by leveraging a chain of thought (CoT) prompting approach augmented with exemplars. We employ the Tabular-NLI task to showcase how our proposed strategies adeptly train a robust model, enabling it to address diverse perturbations while maintaining accuracy on the original dataset."}
{"Title": "Simul-MuST-C: Simultaneous Multilingual Speech Translation Corpus Using Large Language Model", "Abstract": "Simultaneous Speech Translation (SiST) begins translating before the entire source input is received, making it crucial to balance quality and latency. In real interpreting situations, interpreters manage this simultaneity by breaking sentences into smaller segments and translating them while maintaining the source order as much as possible. SiST could benefit from this approach to balance quality and latency. However, current corpora used for simultaneous tasks often involve significant word reordering in translation, which is not ideal given that interpreters faithfully follow source syntax as much as possible. Inspired by conference interpreting by humans utilizing the salami technique, we introduce the Simul-MuST-C, a dataset created by leveraging the Large Language Model (LLM), specifically GPT-4o, which aligns the target text as closely as possible to the source text by using minimal chunks that contain enough information to be interpreted. Experiments on three language pairs show that the effectiveness of segmented-base monotonicity in training data varies with the grammatical distance between the source and the target, with grammatically distant language pairs benefiting the most in achieving quality while minimizing latency."}
{"Title": "Is This a Bad Table? A Closer Look at the Evaluation of Table Generation from Text", "Abstract": "Understanding whether a generated table is of good quality is important to be able to use it in creating or editing documents using automatic methods. In this work, we underline that existing measures for table quality evaluation fail to capture the overall semantics of the tables, and sometimes unfairly penalize good tables and reward bad ones. We propose TabEval, a novel table evaluation strategy that captures table semantics by first breaking down a table into a list of natural language atomic statements and then compares them with ground truth statements using entailment-based measures. To validate our approach, we curate a dataset comprising of text descriptions for 1,250 diverse Wikipedia tables, covering a range of topics and structures, in contrast to the limited scope of existing datasets. We compare TabEval with existing metrics using unsupervised and supervised text-to-table generation methods, demonstrating its stronger correlation with human judgments of table quality across four datasets."}
{"Title": "On the Fragility of Active Learners for Text Classification", "Abstract": "Active learning (AL) techniques optimally utilize a labeling budget by iteratively selecting instances that are most valuable for learning. However, they lack {``}prerequisite checks{''}, i.e., there are no prescribed criteria to pick an AL algorithm best suited for a dataset. A practitioner must pick a technique they trust would beat random sampling, based on prior reported results, and hope that it is resilient to the many variables in their environment: dataset, labeling budget and prediction pipelines. The important questions then are: how often on average, do we expect any AL technique to reliably beat the computationally cheap and easy-to-implement strategy of random sampling? Does it at least make sense to use AL in an {``}Always ON{''} mode in a prediction pipeline, so that while it might not always help, it never under-performs random sampling? How much of a role does the prediction pipeline play in AL{'}s success?We examine these questions in detail for the task of text classification using pre-trained representations, which are ubiquitous today.Our primary contribution here is a rigorous evaluation of AL techniques, old and new, across setups that vary wrt datasets, text representations and classifiers. This unlocks multiple insights around warm-up times, i.e., number of labels before gains from AL are seen, viability of an {``}Always ON{''} mode and the relative significance of different factors.Additionally, we release a framework for rigorous benchmarking of AL techniques for text classification."}
{"Title": "BMRetriever: Tuning Large Language Models as Better Biomedical Text Retrievers", "Abstract": "Developing effective biomedical retrieval models is important for excelling at knowledge-intensive biomedical tasks but still challenging due to the lack of sufficient publicly annotated biomedical data and computational resources. We present BMRetriever, a series of dense retrievers for enhancing biomedical retrieval via unsupervised pre-training on large biomedical corpora, followed by instruction fine-tuning on a combination of labeled datasets and synthetic pairs. Experiments on 5 biomedical tasks across 11 datasets verify BMRetriever{'}s efficacy on various biomedical applications. BMRetriever also exhibits strong parameter efficiency, with the 410M variant outperforming baselines up to 11.7 times larger, and the 2B variant matching the performance of models with over 5B parameters. The training data and model checkpoints are released at https://huggingface.co/BMRetriever to ensure transparency, reproducibility, and application to new domains."}
{"Title": "Comparing Neighbors Together Makes it Easy: Jointly Comparing Multiple Candidates for Efficient and Effective Retrieval", "Abstract": "A common retrieve-and-rerank paradigm involves retrieving relevant candidates from a broad set using a fast bi-encoder (BE), followed by applying expensive but accurate cross-encoders (CE) to a limited candidate set. However, relying on this small subset is often susceptible to error propagation from the bi-encoders, which limits the overall performance. To address these issues, we propose the Comparing Multiple Candidates (CMC) framework. CMC compares a query and multiple embeddings of similar candidates (i.e., neighbors) through shallow self-attention layers, delivering rich representations contextualized to each other. Furthermore, CMC is scalable enough to handle multiple comparisons simultaneously. For example, comparing {\\textasciitilde}10K candidates with CMC takes a similar amount of time as comparing 16 candidates with CE. Experimental results on the ZeSHEL dataset demonstrate that CMC, when plugged in between bi-encoders and cross-encoders as a seamless intermediate reranker (BE-CMC-CE), can effectively improve recall@k (+6.7{\\%}-p, +3.5{\\%}-p for R@16, R@64) compared to using only bi-encoders (BE-CE), with negligible slowdown ({\\textless}7{\\%}). Additionally, to verify CMC{'}s effectiveness as the final-stage reranker in improving top-1 accuracy, we conduct experiments on downstream tasks such as entity, passage, and dialogue ranking. The results indicate that CMC is not only faster (11x) but also often more effective than CE, with improved prediction accuracy in Wikipedia entity linking (+0.7{\\%}-p) and DSTC7 dialogue ranking (+3.3{\\%}-p)."}
{"Title": "M3D: MultiModal MultiDocument Fine-Grained Inconsistency Detection", "Abstract": "Fact-checking claims is a highly laborious task that involves understanding how each factual assertion within the claim relates to a set of trusted source materials. Existing approaches make sample-level predictions but fail to identify the specific aspects of the claim that are troublesome and the specific evidence relied upon. In this paper, we introduce a method and new benchmark for this challenging task. Our method predicts the fine-grained logical relationship of each aspect of the claim from a set of multimodal documents, which include text, image(s), video(s), and audio(s). We also introduce a new benchmark (M3DC) of claims requiring multimodal multidocument reasoning, which we construct using a novel claim synthesis technique. Experiments show that our approach outperforms other models on this challenging task on two benchmarks while providing finer-grained predictions, explanations, and evidence."}
{"Title": "MedAdapter: Efficient Test-Time Adaptation of Large Language Models Towards Medical Reasoning", "Abstract": "Despite their improved capabilities in generation and reasoning, adapting large language models (LLMs) to the biomedical domain remains challenging due to their immense size and privacy concerns. In this study, we propose MedAdapter, a unified post-hoc adapter for test-time adaptation of LLMs towards biomedical applications. Instead of fine-tuning the entire LLM, MedAdapter effectively adapts the original model by fine-tuning only a small BERT-sized adapter to rank candidate solutions generated by LLMs. Experiments on four biomedical tasks across eight datasets demonstrate that MedAdapter effectively adapts both white-box and black-box LLMs in biomedical reasoning, achieving average performance improvements of 18.24{\\%} and 10.96{\\%}, respectively, without requiring extensive computational resources or sharing data with third parties. MedAdapter also yields enhanced performance when combined with train-time adaptation, highlighting a flexible and complementary solution to existing adaptation methods. Faced with the challenges of balancing model performance, computational resources, and data privacy, MedAdapter provides an efficient, privacy-preserving, cost-effective, and transparent solution for adapting LLMs to the biomedical domain."}
{"Title": "EHRAgent: Code Empowers Large Language Models for Few-shot Complex Tabular Reasoning on Electronic Health Records", "Abstract": "Clinicians often rely on data engineers to retrieve complex patient information from electronic health record (EHR) systems, a process that is both inefficient and time-consuming. We propose EHRAgent, a large language model (LLM) agent empowered with accumulative domain knowledge and robust coding capability. EHRAgent enables autonomous code generation and execution to facilitate clinicians in directly interacting with EHRs using natural language. Specifically, we formulate a multi-tabular reasoning task based on EHRs as a tool-use planning process, efficiently decomposing a complex task into a sequence of manageable actions with external toolsets. We first inject relevant medical information to enable EHRAgent to effectively reason about the given query, identifying and extracting the required records from the appropriate tables. By integrating interactive coding and execution feedback, EHRAgent then effectively learns from error messages and iteratively improves its originally generated code. Experiments on three real-world EHR datasets show that EHRAgent outperforms the strongest baseline by up to 29.6{\\%} in success rate, verifying its strong capacity to tackle complex clinical tasks with minimal demonstrations."}
{"Title": "SimLLM: Detecting Sentences Generated by Large Language Models Using Similarity between the Generation and its Re-generation", "Abstract": "Large language models have emerged as a significant phenomenon due to their ability to produce natural text across various applications. However, the proliferation of generated text raises concerns regarding its potential misuse in fraudulent activities such as academic dishonesty, spam dissemination, and misinformation propagation. Prior studies have detected the generation of non-analogous text, which manifests numerous differences between original and generated text. We have observed that the similarity between the original text and its generation is notably higher than that between the generated text and its subsequent regeneration. To address this, we propose a novel approach named SimLLM, aimed at estimating the similarity between an input sentence and its generated counterpart to detect analogous machine-generated sentences that closely mimic human-written ones. Our empirical analysis demonstrates SimLLM{'}s superior performance compared to existing methods."}
{"Title": "CELLO: Causal Evaluation of Large Vision-Language Models", "Abstract": "Causal reasoning is fundamental to human intelligence and crucial for effective decision-making in real-world environments. Despite recent advancements in large vision-language models (LVLMs), their ability to comprehend causality remains unclear. Previous work typically focuses on commonsense causality between events and/or actions, which is insufficient for applications like embodied agents and lacks the explicitly defined causal graphs required for formal causal reasoning. To overcome these limitations, we introduce a fine-grained and unified definition of causality involving interactions between humans and/or objects. Building on the definition, we construct a novel dataset, CELLO, consisting of 14,094 causal questions across all four levels of causality: discovery, association, intervention, and counterfactual. This dataset surpasses traditional commonsense causality by including explicit causal graphs that detail the interactions between humans and objects. Extensive experiments on CELLO reveal that current LVLMs still struggle with causal reasoning tasks, but they can benefit significantly from our proposed CELLO-CoT, a causally inspired chain-of-thought prompting strategy. Both quantitative and qualitative analyses from this study provide valuable insights for future research. Our project page is at https://github.com/OpenCausaLab/CELLO."}
{"Title": "Simultaneous Interpretation Corpus Construction by Large Language Models in Distant Language Pair", "Abstract": "In Simultaneous Machine Translation (SiMT), training with a simultaneous interpretation (SI) corpus is an effective method for achieving high-quality yet low-latency. However, constructing such a corpus is challenging due to high costs, and limitations in annotator capabilities, and as a result, existing SI corpora are limited. Therefore, we propose a method to convert existing speech translation (ST) corpora into interpretation-style corpora, maintaining the original word order and preserving the entire source content using Large Language Models (LLM-SI-Corpus). We demonstrate that fine-tuning SiMT models using the LLM-SI-Corpus reduces latency while achieving better quality compared to models fine-tuned with other corpora in both speech-to-text and text-to-text settings. The LLM-SI-Corpus is available at https://github.com/yusuke1997/LLM-SI-Corpus."}
{"Title": "Training-free Deep Concept Injection Enables Language Models for Video Question Answering", "Abstract": "Recently, enabling pretrained language models (PLMs) to perform zero-shot crossmodal tasks such as video question answering has been extensively studied. A popular approach is to learn a projection network that projects visual features into the input text embedding space of a PLM, as well as feed-forward adaptation layers, with the weights of the PLM frozen. However, is it really necessary to learn such additional layers? In this paper, we make the first attempt to demonstrate that the PLM is able to perform zero-shot crossmodal tasks without any crossmodal pretraining, when the observed visual concepts are injected as both additional input text tokens and augmentation in the intermediate features within each feed-forward network for the PLM. Specifically, inputting observed visual concepts as text tokens helps to inject them through the self-attention layers in the PLM; to augment the intermediate features in a way that is compatible with the PLM, we propose to construct adaptation layers based on the intermediate representation of concepts (obtained by solely inputting them to the PLM). These two complementary injection mechanisms form the proposed Deep Concept Injection, which comprehensively enables the PLM to perceive instantly without crossmodal pretraining. Extensive empirical analysis on zero-shot video question answering, as well as visual question answering, shows Deep Concept Injection achieves competitive or even better results in both zero-shot and fine-tuning settings, compared to state-of-the-art methods that require crossmodal pretraining."}
{"Title": "MIBench: Evaluating Multimodal Large Language Models over Multiple Images", "Abstract": "Built on the power of LLMs, numerous multimodal large language models (MLLMs) have recently achieved remarkable performance on various vision-language tasks. However, most existing MLLMs and benchmarks primarily focus on single-image input scenarios, leaving the performance of MLLMs when handling realistic multiple images underexplored. Although a few benchmarks consider multiple images, their evaluation dimensions and samples are very limited. In this paper, we propose a new benchmark MIBench, to comprehensively evaluate fine-grained abilities of MLLMs in multi-image scenarios. Specifically, MIBench categorizes the multi-image abilities into three scenarios: multi-image instruction (MII), multimodal knowledge-seeking (MKS) and multimodal in-context learning (MIC), and constructs 13 tasks with a total of 13K annotated samples. During data construction, for MII and MKS, we extract correct options from manual annotations and create challenging distractors to obtain multiple-choice questions. For MIC, to enable an in-depth evaluation, we set four sub-tasks and transform the original datasets into in-context learning formats. We evaluate several open-source and closed-source MLLMs on the proposed MIBench. The results reveal that although current models excel in single-image tasks, they exhibit significant shortcomings when faced with multi-image inputs, such as limited fine-grained perception, multi-image reasoning and in-context learning abilities. The annotated data of MIBench is available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/StarBottle/MIBench."}
{"Title": "ZEBRA: Zero-Shot Example-Based Retrieval Augmentation for Commonsense Question Answering", "Abstract": "Current Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown strong reasoning capabilities in commonsense question answering benchmarks, but the process underlying their success remains largely opaque. As a consequence, recent approaches have equipped LLMs with mechanisms for knowledge retrieval, reasoning and introspection, not only to improve their capabilities but also to enhance the interpretability of their outputs. However, these methods require additional training, hand-crafted templates or human-written explanations. To address these issues, we introduce ZEBRA, a zero-shot question answering framework that combines retrieval, case-based reasoning and introspection and dispenses with the need for additional training of the LLM. Given an input question, ZEBRA retrieves relevant question-knowledge pairs from a knowledge base and generates new knowledge by reasoning over the relationships in these pairs. This generated knowledge is then used to answer the input question, improving the model{'}s performance and interpretability. We evaluate our approach across 8 well-established commonsense reasoning benchmarks, demonstrating that ZEBRA consistently outperforms strong LLMs and previous knowledge integration approaches, achieving an average accuracy improvement of up to 4.5 points."}
{"Title": "ABLE: Personalized Disability Support with Politeness and Empathy Integration", "Abstract": "In today{'}s dynamic world, providing inclusive and personalized support for individuals with physical disabilities is imperative. With diverse needs and preferences, tailored assistance according to user personas is crucial. In this paper, we introduce ABLE (Adaptive, Bespoke, Listen and Empathetic), a Conversational Support System for Physical Disabilities. By tracking user personas, including gender, age, and personality traits based on the OCEAN model, ABLE ensures that support interactions are uniquely tailored to each user{'}s characteristics and preferences. Moreover, integrating politeness and empathy levels in responses enhances user satisfaction and engagement, fostering a supportive and respectful environment. The development of ABLE involves compiling a comprehensive conversational dataset enriched with user profile annotations. Leveraging reinforcement learning techniques and diverse reward mechanisms, ABLE trains a model to generate responses aligned with individual user profiles while maintaining appropriate levels of politeness and empathy. Based on rigorous empirical analysis encompassing automatic and human evaluation metrics based on persona-consistency, politeness accuracy, empathy accuracy, perplexity, and conversation coherence, the efficacy of ABLE is assessed. Our findings underscore ABLE{'}s success in delivering tailored support to individuals grappling with physical disabilities. To the best of our knowledge, this is the very first attempt towards building a user{'}s persona-oriented physical disability support system."}
{"Title": "Language Models as Compilers: Simulating Pseudocode Execution Improves Algorithmic Reasoning in Language Models", "Abstract": "Algorithmic reasoning tasks that involve complex logical patterns, such as completing Dyck language, pose challenges for large language models (LLMs), despite their recent success. Prior work has used LLMs to generate programming language and applied external compilers for such tasks. Yet, when on the fly, it is hard to generate an executable code with the correct logic for the solution. Even so, code for one instance cannot be reused for others, although they might require the same logic to solve. We present Think-and-Execute, a novel framework that improves LLMs{'} algorithmic reasoning: (1) In Think, we discover task-level logic shared across all instances, and express such logic with pseudocode; (2) In Execute, we tailor the task-level pseudocode to each instance and simulate the execution of it. Think-and-Execute outperforms several strong baselines (including CoT and PoT) in diverse algorithmic reasoning tasks. We manifest the advantage of using task-level pseudocode over generating instance-specific solutions one by one. Also, we show that pseudocode can better improve LMs{'} reasoning than natural language (NL) guidance, even though they are trained with NL instructions."}
{"Title": "Coffee-Gym: An Environment for Evaluating and Improving Natural Language Feedback on Erroneous Code", "Abstract": "This paper presents Coffee-Gym, a comprehensive RL environment for training models that provide feedback on code editing. Coffee-Gym includes two major components: (1) Coffee, a dataset containing humans{'} code edit traces for coding questions and human-written feedback for editing erroneous code; (2) CoffeeEval, a reward function that faithfully reflects the helpfulness of feedback by assessing the performance of the revised code in unit tests. With them, Coffee-Gym addresses the unavailability of high-quality datasets for training feedback models with RL, and provides more accurate rewards than the SOTA reward model (i.e., GPT-4). By applying Coffee-Gym, we elicit feedback models that outperform baselines in enhancing open-source code LLMs{'} code editing, making them comparable with closed-source LLMs. We make the dataset and the model checkpoint publicly available in https://huggingface.co/spaces/Coffee-Gym/Project-Coffee-Gym."}
{"Title": "Improving Minimum Bayes Risk Decoding with Multi-Prompt", "Abstract": "While instruction fine-tuned LLMs are effective text generators, sensitivity to prompt construction makes performance unstable and sub-optimal in practice. Relying on a single {`}best{'} prompt cannot capture all differing approaches to a generation problem. Using this observation, we propose multi-prompt decoding, where many candidate generations are decoded from a prompt bank at inference-time. To ensemble candidates, we use Minimum Bayes Risk (MBR) decoding, which selects a final output using a trained value metric. We show multi-prompt improves MBR across a comprehensive set of conditional generation tasks, and show this is a result of estimating a more diverse and higher quality candidate space than that of a single prompt. Our experiments confirm multi-prompt improves generation across tasks, models and metrics."}
{"Title": "Deciphering Cognitive Distortions in Patient-Doctor Mental Health Conversations: A Multimodal LLM-Based Detection and Reasoning Framework", "Abstract": "Cognitive distortion research holds increasing significance as it sheds light on pervasive errors in thinking patterns, providing crucial insights into mental health challenges and fostering the development of targeted interventions and therapies. This paper delves into the complex domain of cognitive distortions which are prevalent distortions in cognitive processes often associated with mental health issues. Focusing on patient-doctor dialogues, we introduce a pioneering method for detecting and reasoning about cognitive distortions utilizing Large Language Models (LLMs). Operating within a multimodal context encompassing audio, video, and textual data, our approach underscores the critical importance of integrating diverse modalities for a comprehensive understanding of cognitive distortions. By leveraging multimodal information, including audio, video, and textual data, our method offers a nuanced perspective that enhances the accuracy and depth of cognitive distortion detection and reasoning in a zero-shot manner. Our proposed hierarchical framework adeptly tackles both detection and reasoning tasks, showcasing significant performance enhancements compared to current methodologies. Through comprehensive analysis, we elucidate the efficacy of our approach, offering promising insights into the diagnosis and understanding of cognitive distortions in multimodal settings.The code and dataset can be found here: \\url{https://github.com/clang1234/ZS-CoDR.git}"}
{"Title": "Nearest Neighbor Normalization Improves Multimodal Retrieval", "Abstract": "Multimodal models leverage large-scale pretraining to achieve strong but still imperfect performance on tasks such as image captioning, visual question answering, and cross-modal retrieval. In this paper, we present a simple and efficient method for correcting errors in trained contrastive image-text retrieval models with no additional training, called Nearest Neighbor Normalization (NNN). We show an improvement on retrieval metrics in both text retrieval and image retrieval for all of the contrastive models that we tested (CLIP, BLIP, ALBEF, SigLIP, BEiT) and for both of the datasets that we used (MS-COCO and Flickr30k). NNN requires a reference database, but does not require any training on this database, and can even increase the retrieval accuracy of a model after finetuning."}
{"Title": "Rethinking Pragmatics in Large Language Models: Towards Open-Ended Evaluation and Preference Tuning", "Abstract": "This study addresses the challenges of assessing and enhancing social-pragmatic inference in large language models (LLMs). We first highlight the inadequacy of current accuracy-based multiple choice question answering (MCQA) formats in assessing social-pragmatic reasoning, and propose the direct evaluation of models{'} free-form responses as measure, which correlates better with human judgment. Furthermore, we explore methods to improve pragmatic abilities in LLMs, advocating for preference optimization (PO) over supervised finetuning (SFT), given the absence of a definitive {``}gold{''} answer in social contexts. Our results show that preferential tuning consistently outperforms SFT across pragmatic phenomena and offers a near-free launch in pragmatic abilities without compromising general capabilities. Lastly, we examine the internal structure of LLMs, revealing that the significant boost in pragmatic reasoning is tied to deeper layer representations, analogous to human high-level thinking. Our experiments span a variety of pragmatic and social reasoning datasets, as well as an image referential game requiring a multimodal theory of mind (ToM). With our refined paradigms for evaluating and enhancing pragmatic inference, this paper offers key insights into building more socially aware language models."}
{"Title": "LongRAG: A Dual-Perspective Retrieval-Augmented Generation Paradigm for Long-Context Question Answering", "Abstract": "Long-Context Question Answering (LCQA), a challenging task, aims to reason over long-context documents to yield accurate answers to questions. Existing long-context Large Language Models (LLMs) for LCQA often struggle with the {``}lost in the middle{''} issue. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) mitigates this issue by providing external factual evidence. However, its chunking strategy disrupts the global long-context information, and its low-quality retrieval in long contexts hinders LLMs from identifying effective factual details due to substantial noise. To this end, we propose LongRAG, a general, dual-perspective, and robust LLM-based RAG system paradigm for LCQA to enhance RAG{'}s understanding of complex long-context knowledge (i.e., global information and factual details). We design LongRAG as a plug-and-play paradigm, facilitating adaptation to various domains and LLMs. Extensive experiments on three multi-hop datasets demonstrate that LongRAG significantly outperforms long-context LLMs (up by 6.94{\\%}), advanced RAG (up by 6.16{\\%}), and Vanilla RAG (up by 17.25{\\%}). Furthermore, we conduct quantitative ablation studies and multi-dimensional analyses, highlighting the effectiveness of the system{'}s components and fine-tuning strategies.Data and code are available at [https://github.com/QingFei1/LongRAG](https://github.com/QingFei1/LongRAG)."}
{"Title": "Context-aware Watermark with Semantic Balanced Green-red Lists for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Watermarking enables people to determine whether the text is generated by a specific model. It injects a unique signature based on the {``}green-red{''} list that can be tracked during detection, where the words in green lists are encouraged to be generated. Recent researchers propose to fix the green/red lists or increase the proportion of green tokens to defend against paraphrasing attacks. However, these methods cause degradation of text quality due to semantic disparities between the watermarked text and the unwatermarked text. In this paper, we propose a semantic-aware watermark method that considers contexts to generate a semantic-aware key to split a semantically balanced green/red list for watermark injection. The semantic balanced list reduces the performance drop due to adding bias on green lists. To defend against paraphrasing attacks, we generate the watermark key considering the semantics of contexts via locally sensitive hashing. To improve the text quality, we propose to split green/red lists considering semantics to enable the green list to cover almost all semantics. We also dynamically adapt the bias to balance text quality and robustness. The experiments show our advantages in both robustness and text quality comparable to existing baselines."}
{"Title": "Knowledge Graph Enhanced Large Language Model Editing", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are pivotal in advancing natural language processing (NLP) tasks, yet their efficacy is hampered by inaccuracies and outdated knowledge. Model editing emerges as a promising solution to address these challenges. However, existing editing methods struggle to track and incorporate changes in knowledge associated with edits, which limits the generalization ability of post-edit LLMs in processing edited knowledge. To tackle these problems, we propose a novel model editing method that leverages knowledge graphs for enhancing LLM editing, namely GLAME. Specifically, we first utilize a knowledge graph augmentation module to uncover associated knowledge that has changed due to editing, obtaining its internal representations within LLMs. This approach allows knowledge alterations within LLMs to be reflected through an external graph structure. Subsequently, we design a graph-based knowledge edit module to integrate structured knowledge into the model editing. This ensures that the updated parameters reflect not only the modifications of the edited knowledge but also the changes in other associated knowledge resulting from the editing process. Comprehensive experiments conducted on GPT-J and GPT-2 XL demonstrate that GLAME significantly improves the generalization capabilities of post-edit LLMs in employing edited knowledge."}
{"Title": "`Quis custodiet ipsos custodes?' Who will watch the watchmen? On Detecting AI-generated peer-reviews", "Abstract": "The integrity of the peer-review process is vital for maintaining scientific rigor and trust within the academic community. With the steady increase in the usage of large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT in academic writing, there is a growing concern that AI-generated texts could compromise the scientific publishing including peer-reviews. Previous works have focused on generic AI-generated text detection or have presented an approach for estimating the fraction of peer-reviews that can be AI-generated. Our focus here is to solve a real-world problem by assisting the editor or chair in determining whether a review is written by ChatGPT or not. To address this, we introduce the Term Frequency (TF) model, which posits that AI often repeats tokens, and the Review Regeneration (RR) model which is based on the idea that ChatGPT generates similar outputs upon re-prompting. We stress test these detectors against token attack and paraphrasing. Finally we propose an effective defensive strategy to reduce the effect of paraphrasing on our models. Our findings suggest both our proposed methods perform better than other AI text detectors. Our RR model is more robust, although our TF model performs better than the RR model without any attacks. We make our code, dataset, model public."}
{"Title": "Mitigating Open-Vocabulary Caption Hallucinations", "Abstract": "While recent years have seen rapid progress in image-conditioned text generation, image captioning still suffers from the fundamental issue of hallucinations, namely, the generation of spurious details that cannot be inferred from the given image. Existing methods largely use closed-vocabulary object lists to mitigate or evaluate hallucinations in image captioning, ignoring the long-tailed nature of hallucinations that occur in practice. To this end, we propose a framework for addressing hallucinations in image captioning in the open-vocabulary setting. Our framework includes a new benchmark, OpenCHAIR, that leverages generative foundation models to evaluate open-vocabulary object hallucinations for image captioning, surpassing the popular and similarly-sized CHAIR benchmark in both diversity and accuracy. Furthermore, to mitigate open-vocabulary hallucinations without using a closed object list, we propose MOCHa, an approach harnessing advancements in reinforcement learning. Our multi-objective reward function explicitly targets the trade-off between fidelity and adequacy in generations without requiring any strong supervision. MOCHa improves a large variety of image captioning models, as captured by our OpenCHAIR benchmark and other existing metrics. We will release our code and models."}
{"Title": "Initialization of Large Language Models via Reparameterization to Mitigate Loss Spikes", "Abstract": "Loss spikes, a phenomenon in which the loss value diverges suddenly, is a fundamental issue in the pre-training of large language models. This paper supposes that the non-uniformity of the norm of the parameters is one of the causes of loss spikes. Here, in training of neural networks, the scale of the gradients is required to be kept constant throughout the layers to avoid the vanishing and exploding gradients problem. However, to meet these requirements in the Transformer model, the norm of the model parameters must be non-uniform, and thus, parameters whose norm is smaller are more sensitive to the parameter update. To address this issue, we propose a novel technique, weight scaling as reparameterization (WeSaR). WeSaR introduces a gate parameter per parameter matrix and adjusts it to the value satisfying the requirements. Because of the gate parameter, WeSaR sets the norm of the original parameters uniformly, which results in stable training. Experimental results with the Transformer decoders consisting of 130 million, 1.3 billion, and 13 billion parameters showed that WeSaR stabilizes and accelerates training and that it outperformed compared methods including popular initialization methods."}
{"Title": "ALVIN: Active Learning Via INterpolation", "Abstract": "Active Learning aims to minimize annotation effort by selecting the most useful instances from a pool of unlabeled data. However, typical active learning methods overlook the presence of distinct example groups within a class, whose prevalence may vary, e.g., in occupation classification datasets certain demographics are disproportionately represented in specific classes. This oversight causes models to rely on shortcuts for predictions, i.e., spurious correlations between input attributes and labels occurring in well-represented groups. To address this issue, we propose Active Learning Via INterpolation (ALVIN), which conducts intra-class interpolations between examples from under-represented and well-represented groups to create anchors, i.e., artificial points situated between the example groups in the representation space. By selecting instances close to the anchors for annotation, ALVIN identifies informative examples exposing the model to regions of the representation space that counteract the influence of shortcuts. Crucially, since the model considers these examples to be of high certainty, they are likely to be ignored by typical active learning methods. Experimental results on six datasets encompassing sentiment analysis, natural language inference, and paraphrase detection demonstrate that ALVIN outperforms state-of-the-art active learning methods in both in-distribution and out-of-distribution generalization."}
{"Title": "Filtered Direct Preference Optimization", "Abstract": "Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) plays a crucial role in aligning language models with human preferences. While the significance of dataset quality is generally recognized, explicit investigations into its impact within the RLHF framework, to our knowledge, have been limited. This paper addresses the issue of text quality within the preference dataset by focusing on direct preference optimization (DPO), an increasingly adopted reward-model-free RLHF method. We confirm that text quality significantly influences the performance of models optimized with DPO more than those optimized with reward-model-based RLHF. Building on this new insight, we propose an extension of DPO, termed filtered direct preference optimization (fDPO). fDPO uses a trained reward model to monitor the quality of texts within the preference dataset during DPO training. Samples of lower quality are discarded based on comparisons with texts generated by the model being optimized, resulting in a more accurate dataset. Experimental results demonstrate that fDPO enhances the final model performance. Our code is available at https://github.com/CyberAgentAILab/filtered-dpo."}
{"Title": "Instruction Fine-Tuning: Does Prompt Loss Matter?", "Abstract": "We present a novel study analyzing the effects of various prompt loss token weights (PLW) for supervised instruction fine-tuning (SIFT). While prompt-masking (PLW = 0) is common for SIFT, some fine-tuning APIs support fractional PLWs and suggest that using a small non-zero PLW can help stabilize learning when fine-tuning on short-completion data. However, there has never been a study confirming this claim, and OpenAI, a major cloud-based SIFT provider, recently removed this parameter from their fine-tuning API. We found that performance of models fine-tuned on short-completion data had a statistically-significant negative quadratic relationship with PLW. Using small values (0.01 \u00e2\u0088\u0092 0.5) of PLW produced better results on multiple-choice and short-generation benchmarks (outperforming models fine-tuned on long-completion data) while large values ({\\mbox{$\\approx$}} 1.0) of PLW produced better results on long-generation benchmarks. We explained this effect and verified its importance through additional experiments. This research serves as a warning to API providers about the importance of providing a PLW parameter for SIFT."}
{"Title": "Entity Insertion in Multilingual Linked Corpora: The Case of Wikipedia", "Abstract": "Links are a fundamental part of information networks, turning isolated pieces of knowledge into a network of information that is much richer than the sum of its parts. However, adding a new link to the network is not trivial: it requires not only the identification of a suitable pair of source and target entities but also the understanding of the content of the source to locate a suitable position for the link in the text. The latter problem has not been addressed effectively, particularly in the absence of text spans in the source that could serve as anchors to insert a link to the target entity. To bridge this gap, we introduce and operationalize the task of entity insertion in information networks. Focusing on the case of Wikipedia, we empirically show that this problem is, both, relevant and challenging for editors. We compile a benchmark dataset in 105 languages and develop a framework for entity insertion called LocEI (Localized Entity Insertion) and its multilingual variant XLocEI. We show that XLocEI outperforms all baseline models (including state-of-the-art prompt-based ranking with LLMs such as GPT-4) and that it can be applied in a zero-shot manner on languages not seen during training with minimal performance drop. These findings are important for applying entity insertion models in practice, e.g., to support editors in adding links across the more than 300 language versions of Wikipedia."}
{"Title": "FreeEval: A Modular Framework for Trustworthy and Efficient Evaluation of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The rapid growth of evaluation methodologies and datasets for large language models (LLMs) has created a pressing need for their unified integration. Meanwhile, concerns about data contamination and bias compromise the trustworthiness of evaluation findings, while the efficiency of evaluation processes remains a bottleneck due to the significant computational costs associated with LLM inference.In response to these challenges, we introduce FreeEval, a modular framework not only for conducting trustworthy and efficient automatic evaluations of LLMs but also serving as a platform to develop and validate new evaluation methodologies. FreeEval addresses key challenges through: (1) unified abstractions that simplify the integration of diverse evaluation methods, including dynamic evaluations requiring complex LLM interactions; (2) built-in meta-evaluation techniques such as data contamination detection and human evaluation to enhance result fairness; (3) a high-performance infrastructure with distributed computation and caching strategies for efficient large-scale evaluations; and (4) an interactive Visualizer for result analysis and interpretation to support innovation of evaluation techniques. We open-source all our code at https://github.com/WisdomShell/FreeEval and our demostration video, live demo, installation guides are available at: https://freeeval.zhuohao.me/."}
{"Title": "i-Code Studio: A Configurable and Composable Framework for Integrative AI", "Abstract": "Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) requires comprehensive understanding and generation capabilities for a variety of tasks spanning different modalities and functionalities. Integrative AI is one important direction to approach AGI, through combining multiple models to tackle complex multimodal tasks. However, there is a lack of a flexible and composable platform to facilitate efficient and effective model composition and coordination. In this paper, we propose the i-Code Studio, a configurable and composable framework for Integrative AI. The i-Code Studio orchestrates multiple pre-trained models in a finetuning-free fashion to conduct complex multimodal tasks. Instead of simple model composition, the i-Code Studio provides an integrative, flexible, and composable setting for developers to quickly and easily compose cutting-edge services and technologies tailored to their specific requirements. The i-Code Studio achieves impressive results on a variety of zero-shot multimodal tasks, such as video-to-text retrieval, speech-to-speech translation, and visual question answering. We also demonstrate how to quickly build a multimodal agent based on the i-Code Studio that can communicate and personalize for users. The project page with demonstrations and code is at https://i-code-studio.github.io/."}
{"Title": "Evalverse: Unified and Accessible Library for Large Language Model Evaluation", "Abstract": "This paper introduces Evalverse, a novel library that streamlines the evaluation of Large Language Models (LLMs) by unifying disparate evaluation tools into a single, user-friendly framework. Evalverse enables individuals with limited knowledge of artificial intelligence to easily request LLM evaluations and receive detailed reports, facilitated by an integration with communication platforms like Slack. Thus, Evalverse serves as a powerful tool for the comprehensive assessment of LLMs, offering both researchers and practitioners a centralized and easily accessible evaluation framework. Finally, we also provide a demo video for Evalverse, showcasing its capabilities and implementation in a two-minute format."}
{"Title": "Medico: Towards Hallucination Detection and Correction with Multi-source Evidence Fusion", "Abstract": "As we all know, hallucinations prevail in Large Language Models (LLMs), where the generated content is coherent but factually incorrect, which inflicts a heavy blow on the widespread application of LLMs. Previous studies have shown that LLMs could confidently state non-existent facts rather than answering {``}I don{'}t know{''}. Therefore, it is necessary to resort to external knowledge to detect and correct the hallucinated content. Since manual detection and correction of factual errors is labor-intensive, developing an automatic end-to-end hallucination-checking approach is indeed a needful thing. To this end, we present Medico, a Multi-source evidence fusion enhanced hallucination detection and correction framework. It fuses diverse evidence from multiple sources, detects whether the generated content contains factual errors, provides the rationale behind the judgment, and iteratively revises the hallucinated content. Experimental results on evidence retrieval (0.964 HR@5, 0.908 MRR@5), hallucination detection (0.927-0.951 F1), and hallucination correction (0.973-0.979 approval rate) manifest the great potential of Medico. A video demo of Medico can be found at https://youtu.be/RtsO6CSesBI."}
{"Title": "OpenOmni: A Collaborative Open Source Tool for Building Future-Ready Multimodal Conversational Agents", "Abstract": "Multimodal conversational agents are highly desirable because they offer natural and human-like interaction.However, there is a lack of comprehensive end-to-end solutions to support collaborative development and benchmarking.While proprietary systems like GPT-4o and Gemini demonstrating impressive integration of audio, video, and text with response times of 200-250ms, challenges remain in balancing latency, accuracy, cost, and data privacy.To better understand and quantify these issues, we developed \\textbf{OpenOmni}, an open-source, end-to-end pipeline benchmarking tool that integrates advanced technologies such as Speech-to-Text, Emotion Detection, Retrieval Augmented Generation, Large Language Models, along with the ability to integrate customized models.OpenOmni supports local and cloud deployment, ensuring data privacy and supporting latency and accuracy benchmarking. This flexible framework allows researchers to customize the pipeline, focusing on real bottlenecks and facilitating rapid proof-of-concept development. OpenOmni can significantly enhance applications like indoor assistance for visually impaired individuals, advancing human-computer interaction.Our demonstration video is available https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zaSiT3clWqY, demo is available via https://openomni.ai4wa.com, code is available via https://github.com/AI4WA/OpenOmniFramework."}
{"Title": "Lighthouse: A User-Friendly Library for Reproducible Video Moment Retrieval and Highlight Detection", "Abstract": "We propose Lighthouse, a user-friendly library for reproducible video moment retrieval and highlight detection (MR-HD). Although researchers proposed various MR-HD approaches, the research community holds two main issues. The first is a lack of comprehensive and reproducible experiments across various methods, datasets, and video-text features.This is because no unified training and evaluation codebase covers multiple settings. The second is user-unfriendly design. Because previous works use different libraries, researchers set up individual environments. In addition, most works release only the training codes, requiring users to implement the whole inference process of MR-HD. Lighthouse addresses these issues by implementing a unified reproducible codebase that includes six models, three features, and five datasets. In addition, it provides an inference API and web demo to make these methods easily accessible for researchers and developers. Our experiments demonstrate that Lighthouse generally reproduces the reported scores in the reference papers. The code is available at https://github.com/line/lighthouse."}
{"Title": "MarkLLM: An Open-Source Toolkit for LLM Watermarking", "Abstract": "Watermarking for Large Language Models (LLMs), which embeds imperceptible yet algorithmically detectable signals in model outputs to identify LLM-generated text, has become crucial in mitigating the potential misuse of LLMs. However, the abundance of LLM watermarking algorithms, their intricate mechanisms, and the complex evaluation procedures and perspectives pose challenges for researchers and the community to easily understand, implement and evaluate the latest advancements. To address these issues, we introduce MarkLLM, an open-source toolkit for LLM watermarking. MarkLLM offers a unified and extensible framework for implementing LLM watermarking algorithms, while providing user-friendly interfaces to ensure ease of access. Furthermore, it enhances understanding by supporting automatic visualization of the underlying mechanisms of these algorithms. For evaluation, MarkLLM offers a comprehensive suite of 12 tools spanning three perspectives, along with two types of automated evaluation pipelines. Through MarkLLM, we aim to support researchers while improving the comprehension and involvement of the general public in LLM watermarking technology, fostering consensus and driving further advancements in research and application. Our code is available at https://github.com/THU-BPM/MarkLLM."}
{"Title": "AUTOGEN STUDIO: A No-Code Developer Tool for Building and Debugging Multi-Agent Systems", "Abstract": "Multi-agent systems, where multiple agents (generative AI models + tools) collaborate, are emerging as an effective pattern for solving long-running, complex tasks in numerous do- mains. However, specifying their parameters (such as models, tools, and orchestration mechanisms etc,.) and debugging them remains challenging for most developers. To address this challenge, we present AUTOGEN STUDIO, a no-code developer tool for rapidly prototyping, debugging, and evaluating multi-agent work- flows built upon the AUTOGEN framework. AUTOGEN STUDIO offers a web interface and a Python API for representing LLM-enabled agents using a declarative (JSON-based) specification. It provides an intuitive drag-and-drop UI for agent workflow specification, interactive evaluation and debugging of workflows, and a gallery of reusable agent components. We highlight four design principles for no-code multi-agent developer tools and contribute an open-source implementation. https://github.com/microsoft/autogen/tree/autogenstudio/samples/apps/autogen-studio"}
{"Title": "TinyAgent: Function Calling at the Edge", "Abstract": "Recent large language models (LLMs) have enabled the development of advanced agentic systems that can integrate various tools and APIs to fulfill user queries through function calling. However, the deployment of these LLMs on the edge has not been explored since they typically require cloud-based infrastructure due to their substantial model size and computational demands. To this end, we present TinyAgent, an end-to-end framework for training and deploying task-specific small language model agents capable of function calling for driving agentic systems at the edge. We first show how to enable accurate function calling for open-source models via the LLMCompiler framework. We then systematically curate a high-quality dataset for function calling, which we use to fine-tune two small language models, TinyAgent-1.1B and 7B. For efficient inference, we introduce a novel tool retrieval method to reduce the input prompt length and utilize quantization to further accelerate the inference speed. As a driving application, we demonstrate a local Siri-like system for Apple{'}s MacBook that can execute user commands through text or voice input. Our results show that our models can achieve, and even surpass, the function-calling capabilities of larger models like GPT-4-Turbo, while being fully deployed at the edge. We open-source our [dataset, models, and installable package](https://github.com/SqueezeAILab/TinyAgent) and provide a [demo video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0GvaGL9IDpQ) for our MacBook assistant agent."}
{"Title": "TruthReader: Towards Trustworthy Document Assistant Chatbot with Reliable Attribution", "Abstract": "Document assistant chatbots are empowered with extensive capabilities by Large Language Models (LLMs) and have exhibited significant advancements. However, these systems may suffer from hallucinations that are difficult to verify in the context of given documents.Moreover, despite the emergence of products for document assistants, they either heavily rely on commercial LLM APIs or lack transparency in their technical implementations, leading to expensive usage costs and data privacy concerns. In this work, we introduce a fully open-source document assistant chatbot with reliable attribution, named TruthReader, utilizing adapted conversational retriever and LLMs. Our system enables the LLMs to generate answers with detailed inline citations, which can be attributed to the original document paragraphs, facilitating the verification of the factual consistency of the generated text. To further adapt the generative model, we develop a comprehensive pipeline consisting of data construction and model optimization processes.This pipeline equips the LLMs with the necessary capabilities to generate accurate answers, produce reliable citations, and refuse unanswerable questions. Our codebase, data and models are released, and the video demonstration of our system is available at https://youtu.be/RYVt3itzUQM."}
{"Title": "Commentator: A Code-mixed Multilingual Text Annotation Framework", "Abstract": "As the NLP community increasingly addresses challenges associated with multilingualism, robust annotation tools are essential to handle multilingual datasets efficiently. In this paper, we introduce a code-mixed multilingual text annotation framework, COMMENTATOR, specifically designed for annotating code- mixed text. The tool demonstrates its effectiveness in token-level and sentence-level language annotation tasks for Hinglish text. We perform robust qualitative human-based evaluations to showcase COMMENTATOR led to 5x faster annotations than the best baseline."}
{"Title": "Integrating INCEpTION into larger annotation processes", "Abstract": "Annotation tools are increasingly only steps in a larger process into which they need to be integrated, for instance by calling out to web services for labeling support or importing documents from external sources. This requires certain capabilities that annotation tools need to support in order to keep up. Here, we define the respective requirements and how popular annotation tools support them. As a demonstration for how these can be implemented, we adapted INCEpTION, a semantic annotation platform offering intelligent assistance and knowledge management. For instance, support for a range of APIs has been added to INCEpTION through which it can be controlled and which allow it to interact with external services such as authorization services, crowdsourcing platforms, terminology services or machine learning services. Additionally, we introduce new capabilities that allow custom rendering of XML documents and even the ability to add new JavaScript-based editor plugins, thereby making INCEpTION usable in an even wider range of annotation tasks."}
{"Title": "Arxiv Copilot: A Self-Evolving and Efficient LLM System for Personalized Academic Assistance", "Abstract": "As scientific research proliferates, researchers face the daunting task of navigating and reading vast amounts of literature. Existing solutions, such as document QA, fail to provide personalized and up-to-date information efficiently. We present Arxiv Copilot, a self-evolving, efficient LLM system designed to assist researchers, based on thought-retrieval, user profile and high performance optimization. Specifically, Arxiv Copilot can offer personalized research services, maintaining a real-time updated database. Quantitative evaluation demonstrates that Arxiv Copilot saves 69.92{\\%} of time after efficient deployment. This paper details the design and implementation of Arxiv Copilot, highlighting its contributions to personalized academic support and its potential to streamline the research process. We have deployed Arxiv Copilot at: https://huggingface.co/spaces/ulab-ai/ArxivCopilot."}
{"Title": "TransAgents: Build Your Translation Company with Language Agents", "Abstract": "Multi-agent systems empowered by large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in a wide range of downstream applications. In this work, we introduce TransAgents, a novel multi-agent translation system inspired by human translation companies. TransAgents employs specialized agents{---}Senior Editor, Junior Editor, Translator, Localization Specialist, and Proofreader{---}to collaboratively produce translations that are accurate, culturally sensitive, and of high quality. Our system is flexible, allowing users to configure their translation company based on specific needs, and universal, with empirical evidence showing superior performance across various domains compared to state-of-the-art methods. Additionally, TransAgents features a user-friendly interface and offers translations at a cost approximately $80\\times$ cheaper than professional human translation services. Evaluations on literary, legal, and financial test sets demonstrate that TransAgents produces translations preferred by human evaluators, even surpassing human-written references in literary contexts. Our live demo website is available at https://www.transagents.ai/. Our demonstration video is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p7jIAtF-WKc."}
{"Title": "Monitoring Hate Speech in Indonesia: An NLP-based Classification of Social Media Texts", "Abstract": "Online hate speech propagation is a complex issue, deeply influenced by both the perpetrator and the target{'}s cultural, historical, and societal contexts. Consequently, developing a universally robust hate speech classifier for diverse social media texts remains a challenging and unsolved task. The lack of mechanisms to track the spread and severity of hate speech further complicates the formulation of effective solutions. In response to this, to monitor hate speech in Indonesia during the recent 2024 presidential election, we have employed advanced Natural Language Processing (NLP) technologies to create an improved hate speech classifier tailored for a narrower subset of texts; specifically, texts that target vulnerable groups that have historically been the targets of hate speech in Indonesia. Our focus is on texts that mention these six vulnerable minority groups in Indonesia: Shia, Ahmadiyyah, Christians, LGBTQ+, Indonesian Chinese, and people with disabilities, as well as one additional group of interest: Jews. The insights gained from our dashboard have assisted stakeholders in devising more effective strategies to counteract hate speech. Notably, our dashboard has persuaded the General Election Supervisory Body in Indonesia (BAWASLU) to collaborate with our institution and the Alliance of Independent Journalists (AJI) to monitor social media hate speech in vulnerable areas in the country known for hate speech dissemination or hate-related violence in the upcoming Indonesian regional elections. This dashboard is available online at \\url{https://aji.or.id/hate-speech-monitoring}."}
{"Title": "CAVA: A Tool for Cultural Alignment Visualization & Analysis", "Abstract": "It is well-known that language models are biased; they have patchy knowledge of countries and cultures that are poorly represented in their training data. We introduce CAVA, a visualization tool for identifying and analyzing country-specific biases in language models.Our tool allows users to identify whether a language model successful captures the perspectives of people of different nationalities. The tool supports analysis of both longform and multiple-choice models responses and comparisons between models.Our open-source code easily allows users to upload any country-based language model generations they wish to analyze.To showcase CAVA{'}s efficacy, we present a case study analyzing how several popular language models answer survey questions from the World Values Survey."}
{"Title": "ReDel: A Toolkit for LLM-Powered Recursive Multi-Agent Systems", "Abstract": "Recently, there has been increasing interest in using Large Language Models (LLMs) to construct complex multi-agent systems to perform tasks such as compiling literature reviews, drafting consumer reports, and planning vacations. Many tools and libraries exist for helping create such systems, however none support *recursive* multi-agent systems{---}where the models themselves flexibly decide when to delegate tasks and how to organize their delegation structure. In this work, we introduce ReDel: a toolkit for recursive multi-agent systems that supports custom tool-use, delegation schemes, event-based logging, and interactive replay in an easy-to-use web interface. We show that, using ReDel, we are able to achieve significant performance gains on agentic benchmarks and easily identify potential areas of improvements through the visualization and debugging tools. Our code, documentation, and PyPI package are open-source at https://github.com/zhudotexe/redel, and free to use under the MIT license."}
{"Title": "BattleAgent: Multi-modal Dynamic Emulation on Historical Battles to Complement Historical Analysis", "Abstract": "This paper presents \\textbf{BattleAgent}, a detailed emulation demonstration system that combines the Large Vision-Language Model (VLM) and Multi-Agent System (MAS). This novel system aims to emulate complex dynamic interactions among multiple agents, as well as between agents and their environments, over a period of time. The emulation showcases the current capabilities of agents, featuring fine-grained multi-modal interactions between agents and landscapes. It develops customizable agent structures to meet specific situational requirements, for example, a variety of battle-related activities like scouting and trench digging. These components collaborate to recreate historical events in a lively and comprehensive manner. This methodology holds the potential to substantially improve visualization of historical events and deepen our understanding of historical events especially from the perspective of decision making. The data and code for this project are accessible at \\url{https://github.com/agiresearch/battleagent} and the demo is accessible at \\url{https://drive.google.com/file/d/1I5B3KWiYCSSP1uMiPGNmXlTmild-MzRJ/view?usp=sharing}."}
{"Title": "sign.mt: Real-Time Multilingual Sign Language Translation Application", "Abstract": "This paper presents \\textit{sign.mt}, an open-source application for real-time multilingual bi-directional translation between spoken and signed languages. Harnessing state-of-the-art open-source models, this tool aims to address the communication divide between the hearing and the deaf, facilitating seamless translation in both spoken-to-signed and signed-to-spoken translation directions. To provide reliable and unrestricted communication, \\textit{sign.mt} offers offline functionality, crucial in areas with limited internet connectivity. It enhances user engagement by providing customizable photorealistic sign language avatars, encouraging a more personalized and authentic user experience. Licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 4.0, \\textit{sign.mt} signifies an important stride towards open, inclusive communication.The app can be used and modified for personal and academic purposes and even supports a translation API, fostering integration into a wider range of applications. However, it is by no means a finished product. We invite the NLP community to contribute towards the evolution of \\textit{sign.mt}. Whether it be the integration of more refined models, the development of innovative pipelines, or user experience improvements, your contributions can propel this project to new heights. Available at \\url{https://sign.mt}, it stands as a testament to what we can achieve together, as we strive to make communication accessible to all."}
{"Title": "WebOlympus: An Open Platform for Web Agents on Live Websites", "Abstract": "Web agents are emerging as powerful tools capable of performing complex tasks across diverse web environments. The rapid development of large multimodal models is further enhancing this advancement. However, there is a lack of standardized and user-friendly tools for research and development, as well as experimental platforms on live websites. To address this challenge, we present WebOlympus, an open platform for web agents operating on live websites. WebOlympus offers a Chrome extension-based UI, enabling users without programming experience to easily utilize the platform. It allows users to run web agents with various designs using only a few lines of code or simple clicks on the Chrome extension. To ensure the trustworthiness of web agents, a safety monitor module that prevents harmful actions through human supervision or model-based control is incorporated. WebOlympus supports diverse applications, including annotation interfaces for web agent trajectories and data crawling."}
{"Title": "TAIL: A Toolkit for Automatic and Realistic Long-Context Large Language Model Evaluation", "Abstract": "As long-context large language models (LLMs) are attracting increasing attention for their ability to handle context windows exceeding 128k tokens, the need for effective evaluation methods for these models becomes critical.Existing evaluation methods, however, fall short: needle-in-a-haystack (NIAH) and its variants are overly simplistic, while creating realistic benchmarks is prohibitively expensive due to extensive human annotation requirements. To bridge this gap, we propose TAIL, an automatic toolkit for creating realistic evaluation benchmarks and assessing the performance of long-context LLMs.With TAIL, users can customize the building of a long-context, document-grounded QA benchmark and obtain visualized performance metrics of evaluated models.TAIL has the advantage of requiring minimal human annotation and generating natural questions based on user-provided long-context documents. We apply TAIL to construct a benchmark encompassing multiple expert domains, such as finance, law, patent, and scientific literature. We then evaluate four state-of-the-art long-context LLMs using this benchmark. Results show that all LLMs experience varyingdegrees of performance degradation as contextlengths increase."}
{"Title": "OpenResearcher: Unleashing AI for Accelerated Scientific Research", "Abstract": "The rapid growth of scientific literature imposes significant challenges for researchers endeavoring to stay updated with the latest advancements in their fields and delve into new areas. We introduce OpenResearcher, an innovative platform that leverages Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques to accelerate the research process by answering diverse questions from researchers. OpenResearcher is built based on Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) to integrate Large Language Models (LLMs) with up-to-date, domain-specific knowledge. Moreover, we develop various tools for OpenResearcher to understand researchers{'} queries, search from the scientific literature, filter retrieved information, provide accurate and comprehensive answers, and self-refine these answers. OpenResearcher can flexibly use these tools to balance efficiency and effectiveness. As a result, OpenResearcher enables researchers to save time and increase their potential to discover new insights and drive scientific breakthroughs. Demo, video, and code are available at: https://github.com/GAIR-NLP/OpenResearcher."}
{"Title": "OpenFactCheck: A Unified Framework for Factuality Evaluation of LLMs", "Abstract": "The increased use of large language models (LLMs) across a variety of real-world applications calls for automatic tools to check the factual accuracy of their outputs, as LLMs often hallucinate. This is difficult as it requires assessing the factuality of free-form open-domain responses. While there has been a lot of research on this topic, different papers use different evaluation benchmarks and measures,which makes them hard to compare and hampers future progress. To mitigate these issues, we developed OpenFactCheck, a unified framework, with three modules: (i) RESPONSEEVAL, which allows users to easily customize an automatic fact-checking system and to assess the factuality of all claims in an input document using that system, (ii) LLMEVAL, which assesses the overall factuality of an LLM, and (iii) CHECKEREVAL, a module to evaluate automatic fact-checking systems. OpenFactCheck is open-sourced (https://github.com/mbzuai-nlp/openfactcheck) and publicly released as a Python library (https://pypi.org/project/openfactcheck/) and also as a web service (http://app.openfactcheck.com). A video describing the system is available at https://youtu.be/-i9VKL0HleI."}
{"Title": "ULLME: A Unified Framework for Large Language Model Embeddings with Generation-Augmented Learning", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) excel in various natural language processing tasks, but leveraging them for dense passage embedding remains challenging. This is due to their causal attention mechanism and the misalignment between their pre-training objectives and the text ranking tasks. Despite some recent efforts to address these issues, existing frameworks for LLM-based text embeddings have been limited by their support for only a limited range of LLM architectures and fine-tuning strategies, limiting their practical application and versatility. In this work, we introduce the Unified framework for Large Language Model Embedding (ULLME), a flexible, plug-and-play implementation that enables bidirectional attention across various LLMs and supports a range of fine-tuning strategies. We also propose Generation-augmented Representation Learning (GRL), a novel fine-tuning method to boost LLMs for text embedding tasks. GRL enforces consistency between representation-based and generation-based relevance scores, leveraging LLMs{'} powerful generative abilities for learning passage embeddings. To showcase our framework{'}s flexibility and effectiveness, we release three pre-trained models from ULLME with different backbone architectures, ranging from 1.5B to 8B parameters, all of which demonstrate strong performance on the Massive Text Embedding Benchmark. Our framework is publicly available at: https://github.com/nlp-uoregon/ullme. A demo video for ULLME can also be found at https://rb.gy/ws1ile."}
{"Title": "To the Globe (TTG): Towards Language-Driven Guaranteed Travel Planning", "Abstract": "Travel planning is a challenging and time-consuming task that aims to find an itinerary which satisfies multiple, interdependent constraints regarding flights, accommodations, attractions, and other travel arrangements. In this paper, we propose To the Globe (TTG), a real-time demo system that takes natural language requests from users, translates it to symbolic form via a fine-tuned Large Language Model, and produces optimal travel itineraries with Mixed Integer Linear Programming solvers. The overall system takes {\\textasciitilde}5seconds to reply to the user request with guaranteed itineraries. To train TTG, we develop a synthetic data pipeline that generates userrequests, flight and hotel information in symbolic form without human annotations, based on the statistics of real-world datasets, and fine-tune an LLM to translate NL user requests to their symbolic form, which is sent to the symbolic solver to compute optimal itineraries. Our NL-symbolic translation achieves {\\textasciitilde}91{\\%} exact match in a backtranslation metric (i.e., whether the estimated symbolic form of generated natural language matches the groundtruth), and its returned itineraries have a ratio of 0.979 compared to the optimal cost of the ground truth user request. When evaluated by users, TTG achieves consistently high Net Promoter Scores (NPS) of 35-40{\\%} on generated itinerary."}
{"Title": "MATSA: Multi-Agent Table Structure Attribution", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have significantly advanced QA tasks through in-context learning but often suffer from hallucinations. Attributing supporting evidence grounded in source documents has been explored for unstructured text in the past. However, tabular data present unique challenges for attribution due to ambiguities (e.g., abbreviations, domain-specific terms), complex header hierarchies, and the difficulty in interpreting individual table cells without row and column context. We introduce a new task, Fine-grained Structured Table Attribution (FAST-Tab), to generate row and column-level attributions supporting LLM-generated answers. We present MATSA, a novel LLM-based Multi-Agent system capable of post-hoc Table Structure Attribution to help users visually interpret factual claims derived from tables. MATSA augments tabular entities with descriptive context about structure, metadata, and numerical trends to semantically retrieve relevant rows and columns corresponding to facts in an answer. Additionally, we propose TabCite, a diverse benchmark designed to evaluate the FAST-Tab task on tables with complex layouts sourced from Wikipedia and business PDF documents. Extensive experiments demonstrate that MATSA significantly outperforms SOTA baselines on TabCite, achieving an 8-13{\\%} improvement in F1 score. Qualitative user studies show that MATSA helps increase user trust in Generative AI by providing enhanced explainability for LLM-assisted table QA and enables professionals to be more productive by saving time on fact-checking LLM-generated answers."}
{"Title": "OpenT2T: An Open-Source Toolkit for Table-to-Text Generation", "Abstract": "Table data is pervasive in various industries, and its comprehension and manipulation demand significant time and effort for users seeking to extract relevant information. Consequently, an increasing number of studies have been directed towards table-to-text generation tasks. However, most existing methods are benchmarked solely on a limited number of datasets with varying configurations, leading to a lack of unified, standardized, fair, and comprehensive comparison between methods. This paper presents OpenT2T, the first open-source toolkit for table-to-text generation, designed to reproduce existing large language models (LLMs) for performance comparison and expedite the development of new models.We have implemented and compared a wide range of LLMs under zero- and few-shot settings on 9 table-to-text generation datasets, covering data insight generation, table summarization, and free-form table question answering. Additionally, we maintain a public leaderboard to provide insights for future work into how to choose appropriate table-to-text generation systems for real-world scenarios."}
{"Title": "ChatHF: Collecting Rich Human Feedback from Real-time Conversations", "Abstract": "We introduce ChatHF, an interactive annotation framework for chatbot evaluation, which integrates configurable annotation within a chat interface. ChatHF can be flexibly configured to accommodate various chatbot evaluation tasks, for example detecting offensive content, identifying incorrect or misleading information in chatbot responses, and chatbot responses that might compromise privacy. It supports post-editing of chatbot outputs and supports visual inputs, in addition to an optional voice interface. ChatHF is suitable for collection and annotation of NLP datasets, and Human-Computer Interaction studies, as demonstrated in case studies on image geolocation and assisting older adults with daily activities. ChatHF is publicly accessible at https://chat-hf.com."}
{"Title": "KMatrix: A Flexible Heterogeneous Knowledge Enhancement Toolkit for Large Language Model", "Abstract": "Knowledge-Enhanced Large Language Models (K-LLMs) system enhances Large Language Models (LLMs) abilities using external knowledge. Existing K-LLMs toolkits mainly focus on free-textual knowledge, lacking support for heterogeneous knowledge like tables and knowledge graphs, and fall short in comprehensive datasets, models, and user-friendly experience. To address this gap, we introduce KMatrix: a flexible heterogeneous knowledge enhancement toolkit for LLMs including verbalizing-retrieval and parsing-query methods. Our modularity and control-logic flow diagram design flexibly supports the entire lifecycle of various complex K-LLMs systems, including training, evaluation, and deployment. To assist K-LLMs system research, a series of related knowledge, datasets, and models are integrated into our toolkit, along with performance analyses of K-LLMs systems enhanced by different types of knowledge. Using our toolkit, developers can rapidly build, evaluate, and deploy their own K-LLMs systems."}
{"Title": "Xinference: Making Large Model Serving Easy", "Abstract": "The proliferation of open-source large models necessitates dedicated tools for deployment and accessibility. To mitigate the complexities of model serving, we develop Xinference, an open-source library designed to simplify the deployment and management of large models. Xinference effectively simplifies deployment complexities for users by (a) preventing users from writing code and providing built-in support for various models and OpenAI-compatible APIs; (b) enabling full model serving lifecycle management; (c) guaranteeing efficient and scalable inference and achieving high throughput and low latency. In comparative experiments with similar products like BentoML and Ray Serve, Xinference outperforms these tools and offers superior ease of use.Xinference is available at https://github.com/xorbitsai/inference."}
{"Title": "RETAIN: Interactive Tool for Regression Testing Guided LLM Migration", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly integrated into diverse applications. The rapid evolution of LLMs presents opportunities for developers to enhance applications continuously. However, this constant adaptation can also lead to performance regressions during model migrations. While several interactive tools have been proposed to streamline the complexity of prompt engineering, few address the specific requirements of regression testing for LLM Migrations. To bridge this gap, we introduce RETAIN (REgression Testing guided LLM migrAtIoN), a tool designed explicitly for regression testing in LLM Migrations. RETAIN comprises two key components: an interactive interface tailored to regression testing needs during LLM migrations, and an error discovery module that facilitates understanding of differences in model behaviors. The error discovery module generates textual descriptions of various errors or differences between model outputs, providing actionable insights for prompt refinement. Our automatic evaluation and empirical user studies demonstrate that RETAIN, when compared to manual evaluation, enabled participants to identify twice as many errors, facilitated experimentation with 75{\\%} more prompts, and achieves 12{\\%} higher metric scores in a given time frame."}
{"Title": "ClaimLens: Automated, Explainable Fact-Checking on Voting Claims Using Frame-Semantics", "Abstract": "We present ClaimLens, an automated fact-checking system focused on voting-related factual claims. Existing fact-checking solutions often lack transparency, making it difficult for users to trust and understand the reasoning behind the outcomes. In this work, we address the critical need for transparent and explainable automated fact-checking solutions. We propose a novel approach that leverages frame-semantic parsing to provide structured and interpretable fact verification. By focusing on voting-related claims, we can utilize publicly available voting records from official United States congressional sources and the established Vote semantic frame to extract relevant information from claims. Furthermore, we propose novel data augmentation techniques for frame-semantic parsing, a task known to lack robust annotated data, which leads to a +9.5{\\%} macro F1 score on frame element identification over our baseline."}
{"Title": "RAGViz: Diagnose and Visualize Retrieval-Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) combines knowledge from domain-specific sources into large language models to ground answer generation. Current RAG systems lack customizable visibility on the context documents and the model{'}s attentiveness towards such documents. We propose RAGViz, a RAG diagnosis tool that visualizes the attentiveness of the generated tokens in retrieved documents. With a built-in user interface, retrieval index, and Large Language Model (LLM) backbone, RAGViz provides two main functionalities: (1) token and document-level attention visualization, and (2) generation comparison upon context document addition and removal. As an open-source toolkit, RAGViz can be easily hosted with a custom embedding model and HuggingFace-supported LLM backbone. Using a hybrid ANN (Approximate Nearest Neighbor) index, memory-efficient LLM inference tool, and custom context snippet method, RAGViz operates efficiently with a median query time of about 5 seconds on a moderate GPU node. Our code is available at https://github.com/cxcscmu/RAGViz. A demo video of RAGViz can be found at https://youtu.be/cTAbuTu6ur4."}
{"Title": "PyMarian: Fast Neural Machine Translation and Evaluation in Python", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "LLM-DetectAIve: a Tool for Fine-Grained Machine-Generated Text Detection", "Abstract": "The ease of access to large language models (LLMs) has enabled a widespread of machine-generated texts, and now it is often hard to tell whether a piece of text was human-written or machine-generated. This raises concerns about potential misuse, particularly within educational and academic domains. Thus, it is important to develop practical systems that can automate the process. Here, we present one such system, LLM-DetectAIve, designed for fine-grained detection. Unlike most previous work on machine-generated text detection, which focused on binary classification, LLM-DetectAIve supports four categories: (i) human-written, (ii) machine-generated, (iii) machine-written, then machine-humanized, and (iv) human-written, then machine-polished. Category (iii) aims to detect attempts to obfuscate the fact that a text was machine-generated, while category (iv) looks for cases where the LLM was used to polish a human-written text, which is typically acceptable in academic writing, but not in education. Our experiments show that LLM-DetectAIve can effectively identify the above four categories, which makes it a potentially useful tool in education, academia, and other domains.LLM-DetectAIve is publicly accessible at https://github.com/mbzuai-nlp/LLM-DetectAIve. The video describing our system is available at https://youtu.be/E8eT{\\_}bE7k8c."}
{"Title": "Translation Canvas: An Explainable Interface to Pinpoint and Analyze Translation Systems", "Abstract": "With the rapid advancement of machine translation research, evaluation toolkits have become essential for benchmarking system progress. Tools like COMET and SacreBLEU offer single quality score assessments that are effective for pairwise system comparisons. However, these tools provide limited insights for fine-grained system-level comparisons and the analysis of instance-level defects. To address these limitations, we introduce \\textbf{Translation Canvas}, an explainable interface designed to pinpoint and analyze translation systems{'} performance: 1) Translation Canvas assists machine translation researchers in comprehending system-level model performance by identifying common errors (their frequency and severity) and analyzing relationships between different systems based on various evaluation metrics. 2) It supports fine-grained analysis by highlighting error spans with explanations and selectively displaying systems{'} predictions. According to human evaluation, Translation Canvas demonstrates superior performance over COMET and SacreBLEU packages under enjoybility and understandbility criteria."}
{"Title": "mbrs: A Library for Minimum Bayes Risk Decoding", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Debug Smarter, Not Harder: AI Agents for Error Resolution in Computational Notebooks", "Abstract": "Computational notebooks became indispensable tools for research-related development, offering unprecedented interactivity and flexibility in the development process. However, these benefits come at the cost of reproducibility and an increased potential for bugs.With the rise of code-fluent Large Language Models empowered with agentic techniques, smart bug-fixing tools with a high level of autonomy have emerged.However, those tools are tuned for classical script programming and still struggle with non-linear computational notebooks.In this paper, we present an AI agent designed specifically for error resolution in a computational notebook. We have developed an agentic system capable of exploring a notebook environment by interacting with it{---}similar to how a user would{---}and integrated the system into the JetBrains service for collaborative data science called Datalore.We evaluate our approach against the pre-existing single-action solution by comparing costs and conducting a user study. Users rate the error resolution capabilities of the agentic system higher but experience difficulties with UI. We share the results of the study and consider them valuable for further improving user-agent collaboration."}
{"Title": "Schema-Guided Culture-Aware Complex Event Simulation with Multi-Agent Role-Play", "Abstract": "Complex news events, such as natural disasters and socio-political conflicts, require swift responses from the government and society. Relying on historical events to project the future is insufficient as such events are sparse and do not cover all possible conditions and nuanced situations. Simulation of these complex events can help better prepare and reduce the negative impact. We develop a controllable complex news event simulator guided by both the event schema representing domain knowledge about the scenario and user-provided assumptions representing case-specific conditions.As event dynamics depend on the fine-grained social and cultural context, we further introduce a geo-diverse commonsense and cultural norm-aware knowledge enhancement component.To enhance the coherence of the simulation, apart from the global timeline of events,we take an agent-based approach to simulate the individual character states, plans, and actions. By incorporating the schema and cultural norms, our generated simulations achieve much higher coherence and appropriateness and are received favorably by participants from a humanitarian assistance organization."}
{"Title": "SparkRA: A Retrieval-Augmented Knowledge Service System Based on Spark Large Language Model", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable achievements across various language tasks. To enhance the performance of LLMs in scientific literature services, we developed the scientific literature LLM (SciLit-LLM) through pre-training and supervised fine-tuning on scientific literature, building upon the iFLYTEK Spark LLM. Furthermore, we present a knowledge service system Spark Research Assistant (SparkRA) based on our SciLit-LLM. SparkRA is accessible online and provides three primary functions: literature investigation, paper reading, and academic writing. As of July 30, 2024, SparkRA has garnered over 50,000 registered users, with a total usage count exceeding 1.3 million."}
{"Title": "Generative Dictionary: Improving Language Learner Understanding with Contextual Definitions", "Abstract": "We introduce GenerativeDictionary, a novel dictionary system that generates word sense interpretations based on the given context. Our approach involves transforming context sentences to highlight the meaning of target words within their specific context. The method involves automatically transforming context sentences into sequences of low-dimensional vector token representations, automatically processing the input embeddings through multiple layers of transformers, and automatically generate the word senses based on the latent representations derived from the context. At runtime, context sentences with target words are processed through a transformer model that outputs the relevant word senses.Blind evaluations on a combined set of dictionary example sentences and generated sentences based on given word senses demonstrate that our method is comparable to traditional word sense disambiguation (WSD) methods. By framing WSD as a generative problem, GenerativeDictionary delivers more precise and contextually appropriate word senses, enhancing the effectiveness of language learning tools."}
{"Title": "WalledEval: A Comprehensive Safety Evaluation Toolkit for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "WalledEval is a comprehensive AI safety testing toolkit designed to evaluate large language models (LLMs). It accommodates a diverse range of models, including both open-weight and API-based ones, and features over 35 safety benchmarks covering areas such as multilingual safety, exaggerated safety, and prompt injections. The framework supports both LLM and judge benchmarking, and incorporates custom mutators to test safety against various text-style mutations such as future tense and paraphrasing. Additionally, WalledEval introduces WalledGuard, a new, small and performant content moderation tool, and SGXSTest, a benchmark for assessing exaggerated safety in cultural contexts. We make WalledEval publicly available at https://github.com/walledai/walledeval with a demonstration video at https://youtu.be/50Zy97kj1MA."}
{"Title": "RAGLAB: A Modular and Research-Oriented Unified Framework for Retrieval-Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate human-level capabilities in dialogue, reasoning, and knowledge retention. However, even the most advanced LLMs face challenges such as hallucinations and real-time updating of their knowledge. Current research addresses this bottleneck by equipping LLMs with external knowledge, a technique known as Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG). However, two key issues constrained the development of RAG. First, there is a growing lack of comprehensive and fair comparisons between novel RAG algorithms. Second, open-source tools such as LlamaIndex and LangChain employ high-level abstractions, which results in a lack of transparency and limits the ability to develop novel algorithms and evaluation metrics. To close this gap, we introduce RAGLAB, a modular and research-oriented open-source library. RAGLAB reproduces 6 existing algorithms and provides a comprehensive ecosystem for investigating RAG algorithms. Leveraging RAGLAB, we conduct a fair comparison of 6 RAG algorithms across 10 benchmarks. With RAGLAB, researchers can efficiently compare the performance of various algorithms and develop novel algorithms."}
{"Title": "AutoTrain: No-code training for state-of-the-art models", "Abstract": "With the advancements in open-source models, training(or finetuning) models on custom datasets has become a crucial part of developing solutions which are tailored to specific industrial or open-source applications. Yet, there is no single tool which simplifies the process of training across different types of modalities or tasks.We introduce AutoTrain(aka AutoTrain Advanced){---}an open-source, no code tool/library which can be used to train (or finetune) models for different kinds of tasks such as: large language model (LLM) finetuning, text classification/regression, token classification, sequence-to-sequence task, finetuning of sentence transformers, visual language model (VLM) finetuning, image classification/regression and even classification and regression tasks on tabular data. AutoTrain Advanced is an open-source library providing best practices for training models on custom datasets. The library is available at https://github.com/huggingface/autotrain-advanced. AutoTrain can be used in fully local mode or on cloud machines and works with tens of thousands of models shared on Hugging Face Hub and their variations."}
{"Title": "Sailor: Open Language Models for South-East Asia", "Abstract": "We present Sailor, a family of open language models ranging from 0.5B to 14B parameters, tailored for South-East Asian (SEA) languages. From Qwen1.5, Sailor models accept 200B to 400B tokens during continual pre-training, primarily covering the languages of English, Chinese, Vietnamese, Thai, Indonesian, Malay, and Lao. The training leverages several techniques, including BPE dropout for improving the model robustness, aggressive data cleaning and deduplication, and small proxy models to optimize the data mixture. Experimental results on four typical tasks indicate that Sailor models demonstrate strong performance across different benchmarks, including commonsense reasoning, question answering, reading comprehension and examination. We share our insights to spark a wider interest in developing large language models for multilingual use cases."}
{"Title": "RepoAgent: An LLM-Powered Open-Source Framework for Repository-level Code Documentation Generation", "Abstract": "Generative models have demonstrated considerable potential in software engineering, particularly in tasks such as code generation and debugging. However, their utilization in the domain of code documentation generation remains underexplored. To this end, we introduce RepoAgent, a large language model powered open-source framework aimed at proactively generating, maintaining, and updating code documentation. Through both qualitative and quantitative evaluations, we have validated the effectiveness of our approach, showing that RepoAgent excels in generating high-quality repository-level documentation. The code and results are publicly accessible at https://github.com/OpenBMB/RepoAgent."}
{"Title": "DeepPavlov 1.0: Your Gateway to Advanced NLP Models Backed by Transformers and Transfer Learning", "Abstract": "We present DeepPavlov 1.0, an open-source framework for using Natural Language Processing (NLP) models by leveraging transfer learning techniques. DeepPavlov 1.0 is created for modular and configuration-driven development of state-of-the-art NLP models and supports a wide range of NLP model applications. DeepPavlov 1.0 is designed for practitioners with limited knowledge of NLP/ML. DeepPavlov is based on PyTorch and supports HuggingFace transformers. DeepPavlov is publicly released under the Apache 2.0 license and provides access to an online demo."}
{"Title": "Kandinsky 3: Text-to-Image Synthesis for Multifunctional Generative Framework", "Abstract": "Text-to-image (T2I) diffusion models are popular for introducing image manipulation methods, such as editing, image fusion, inpainting, etc. At the same time, image-to-video (I2V) and text-to-video (T2V) models are also built on top of T2I models. We present Kandinsky 3, a novel T2I model based on latent diffusion, achieving a high level of quality and photorealism. The key feature of the new architecture is the simplicity and efficiency of its adaptation for many types of generation tasks. We extend the base T2I model for various applications and create a multifunctional generation system that includes text-guided inpainting/outpainting, image fusion, text-image fusion, image variations generation, I2V and T2V generation. We also present a distilled version of the T2I model, evaluating inference in 4 steps of the reverse process without reducing image quality and 3 times faster than the base model. We deployed a user-friendly demo system in which all the features can be tested in the public domain. Additionally, we released the source code and checkpoints for the Kandinsky 3 and extended models. Human evaluations show that Kandinsky 3 demonstrates one of the highest quality scores among open source generation systems."}
{"Title": "MIMIR: A Customizable Agent Tuning Platform for Enhanced Scientific Applications", "Abstract": "Recently, large language models (LLMs) have evolved into interactive agents, proficient in planning, tool use, and task execution across various tasks. However, without agent-tuning, open-source models like LLaMA2 currently struggle to match the efficiency of larger models such as GPT-4 in scientific applications due to a lack of agent tuning datasets. In response, we introduce MIMIR, a streamlined platform that leverages large LLMs to generate agent-tuning data for fine-tuning smaller, specialized models. By employing a role-playing methodology, MIMIR enables larger models to simulate various roles and create interaction data, which can then be used to fine-tune open-source models like LLaMA2. This approach ensures that even smaller models can effectively serve as agents in scientific tasks. Integrating these features into an end-to-end platform, MIMIR facilitates everything from the uploading of scientific data to one-click agent fine-tuning. MIMIR is publicly released and actively maintained at https://github. com/gersteinlab/MIMIR, along with a demo video for quick-start, calling for broader development."}
{"Title": "WildVis: Open Source Visualizer for Million-Scale Chat Logs in the Wild", "Abstract": "The increasing availability of real-world conversation data offers exciting opportunities for researchers to study user-chatbot interactions. However, the sheer volume of this data makes manually examining individual conversations impractical. To overcome this challenge, we introduce WildVis, an interactive tool that enables fast, versatile, and large-scale conversation analysis. WildVis provides search and visualization capabilities in the text and embedding spaces based on a list of criteria. To manage million-scale datasets, we implemented optimizations including search index construction, embedding precomputation and compression, and caching to ensure responsive user interactions within seconds. We demonstrate WildVis{'} utility through three case studies: facilitating chatbot misuse research, visualizing and comparing topic distributions across datasets, and characterizing user-specific conversation patterns. WildVis is open-source and designed to be extendable, supporting additional datasets and customized search and visualization functionalities."}
{"Title": "Instruction-Driven Game Engine: A Poker Case Study", "Abstract": "The Instruction-Driven Game Engine (IDGE) project aims to democratize game development by enabling a large language model (LLM) to follow free-form game descriptions and generate game-play processes. The IDGE allows users to create games simply by natural language instructions, which significantly lowers the barrier for game development. We approach the learning process for IDGEs as a Next State Prediction task, wherein the model autoregressively predicts the game states given player actions. The computation of game states must be precise; otherwise, slight errors could corrupt the game-play experience. This is challenging because of the gap between stability and diversity. To address this, we train the IDGE in a curriculum manner that progressively increases its exposure to complex scenarios.Our initial progress lies in developing an IDGE for Poker, which not only supports a wide range of poker variants but also allows for highly individualized new poker games through natural language inputs. This work lays the groundwork for future advancements in transforming how games are created and played."}
{"Title": "LM-Interview: An Easy-to-use Smart Interviewer System via Knowledge-guided Language Model Exploitation", "Abstract": "Semi-structured interviews are a crucial method of data acquisition in qualitative research. Typically controlled by the interviewer, the process progresses through a question-and-answer format, aimed at eliciting information from the interviewee. However, interviews are highly time-consuming and demand considerable experience of the interviewers, which greatly limits the efficiency and feasibility of data collection. Therefore, we introduce LM-Interview, a novel system designed to automate the process of preparing, conducting and analyzing semi-structured interviews. Experimental results demonstrate that LM-interview achieves performance comparable to that of skilled human interviewers."}
{"Title": "Optimizing Entity Resolution in Voice Interfaces: An ASR-Aware Entity Reference Expansion Approach", "Abstract": "This paper tackles the challenges presented by Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) errors in voice-based dialog systems, specifically, their adverse impact on Entity Resolution (ER) as a downstream task. Navigating the equilibrium between accuracy and online retrieval{'}s speed requirement proves challenging, particularly when limited data links the failed mentions to resolved entities. In this paper, we propose a entity reference expansion system, injecting pairs of failed mentions and resolved entity names into the knowledge graph, enhancing its awareness of unresolved mentions. To address data scarcity, we introduce a synthetic data generation approach aligned with noise patterns. This, combined with an ASR-Error-Aware Loss function, facilitates the training of a RoBERTa model, which filters failed mentions and extracts entity pairs for knowledge graph expansion. These designs confront obstacles related to ASR noise, data limitations, and online entity retrieval."}
{"Title": "Two-tiered Encoder-based Hallucination Detection for Retrieval-Augmented Generation in the Wild", "Abstract": "Detecting hallucinations, where Large Language Models (LLMs) are not factually consistent with a Knowledge Base (KB), is a challenge for Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) systems. Current solutions rely on public datasets to develop prompts or fine-tune a Natural Language Inference (NLI) model. However, these approaches are not focused on developing an enterprise RAG system; they do not consider latency, train or evaluate on production data, nor do they handle non-verifiable statements such as small talk or questions. To address this, we leverage the customer service conversation data of four large brands to evaluate existing solutions and propose a set of small encoder models trained on a new dataset. We find the proposed models to outperform existing methods and highlight the value of combining a small amount of in-domain data with public datasets."}
{"Title": "The Program Testing Ability of Large Language Models for Code", "Abstract": "Recent development of large language models (LLMs) for code like CodeX and CodeT5+ shows promise in achieving code intelligence. Their ability of synthesizing program targeting a pre-defined algorithmic coding task has been intensively tested and verified on datasets including HumanEval and MBPP. Yet, evaluation of these LLMs from more perspectives (than just program synthesis) is also anticipated, considering their broad scope of applications. In this paper, we explore their ability of automatic test cases generation. We show intriguing observations and reveal how the quality of their generated test cases can be improved. Following recent work which uses generated test cases to enhance program synthesis, we further leverage our findings in improving the quality of the synthesized programs and show +11.77{\\%} and +4.22{\\%} higher code pass rates on HumanEval+ comparing with the GPT-3.5-turbo baseline and the recent state-of-the-art, respectively. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/asdasxzxcq/TestCaseGen."}
{"Title": "Salient Information Prompting to Steer Content in Prompt-based Abstractive Summarization", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) can generate fluent summaries across domains using prompting techniques, reducing the effort required for summarization applications. However, crafting effective prompts that guide LLMs to generate summaries with the appropriate level of detail and writing style remains a challenge. In this paper, we explore the use of salient information extracted from the source document to enhance summarization prompts. We show that adding keyphrases in prompts can improve ROUGE F1 and recall, making the generated summaries more similar to the reference and more complete. The number of keyphrases can control the precision-recall trade-off. Furthermore, our analysis reveals that incorporating phrase-level salient information is superior to word- or sentence-level. However, the impact on summary faithfulness is not universally positive across LLMs. To enable this approach, we introduce Keyphrase Signal Extractor (SigExt), a lightweight model that can be finetuned to extract salient keyphrases. By using SigExt, we achieve consistent ROUGE improvements across datasets and LLMs without any LLM customization. Our findings provide insights into leveraging salient information in building prompt-based summarization systems."}
{"Title": "Predicting Entity Salience in Extremely Short Documents", "Abstract": "A frequent challenge in applications that use entities extracted from text documents is selecting the most salient entities when only a small number can be used by the application (e.g., displayed to a user). Solving this challenge is particularly difficult in the setting of extremely short documents, such as the response from a digital assistant, where traditional signals of salience such as position and frequency are less likely to be useful. In this paper, we propose a lightweight and data-efficient approach for entity salience detection on short text documents. Our experiments show that our approach achieves competitive performance with respect to complex state-of-the-art models, such as GPT-4, at a significant advantage in latency and cost. In limited data settings, we show that a semi-supervised fine-tuning process can improve performance further. Furthermore, we introduce a novel human-labeled dataset for evaluating entity salience on short question-answer pair documents."}
{"Title": "Don't Shoot The Breeze: Topic Continuity Model Using Nonlinear Naive Bayes With Attention", "Abstract": "Utilizing Large Language Models (LLM) as chatbots in diverse business scenarios often presents the challenge of maintaining topic continuity. Abrupt shifts in topics can lead to poor user experiences and inefficient utilization of computational resources. In this paper, we present a topic continuity model aimed at assessing whether a response aligns with the initial conversation topic. Our model is built upon the expansion of the corresponding natural language understanding (NLU) model into quantifiable terms using a Naive Bayes approach. Subsequently, we have introduced an attention mechanism and logarithmic nonlinearity to enhance its capability to capture topic continuity. This approach allows us to convert the NLU model into an interpretable analytical formula. In contrast to many NLU models constrained by token limits, our proposed model can seamlessly handle conversations of any length with linear time complexity. Furthermore, the attention mechanism significantly improves the model{'}s ability to identify topic continuity in complex conversations. According to our experiments, our model consistently outperforms traditional methods, particularly in handling lengthy and intricate conversations. This unique capability offers us an opportunity to ensure the responsible and interpretable use of LLMs."}
{"Title": "Retrieval Augmented Spelling Correction for E-Commerce Applications", "Abstract": "The rapid introduction of new brand names into everyday language poses a unique challenge for e-commerce spelling correction services, which must distinguish genuine misspellings from novel brand names that use unconventional spelling. We seek to address this challenge via Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG). On this approach, product names are retrieved from a catalog and incorporated into the context used by a large language model (LLM) that has been fine-tuned to do contextual spelling correction. Through quantitative evaluation and qualitative error analyses, we find improvements in spelling correction utilizing the RAG framework beyond a stand-alone LLM. We also demonstrate the value of additional finetuning of the LLM to incorporate retrieved context."}
{"Title": "Scaling Parameter-Constrained Language Models with Quality Data", "Abstract": "Scaling laws in language modeling traditionally quantify training loss as a function of dataset size and model parameters, providing compute-optimal estimates but often neglecting the impact of data quality on model generalization.In this paper, we extend the conventional understanding of scaling law by offering a microscopic view of data quality within the original formulation {--} \\textit{effective training tokens} {--} which we posit to be a critical determinant of performance for parameter-constrained language models.Specifically, we formulate the proposed term of effective training tokens to be a combination of two readily-computed indicators of text:(i) text diversity and (ii) syntheticity as measured by a teacher model.We pretrained over 200 models of 25M to 1.5B parameters on a diverse set of sampled, synthetic data, and estimated the constants that relate text quality, model size, training tokens, and eight reasoning task accuracy scores.We demonstrated the estimated constants yield +0.83 Pearson correlation with true accuracies, and analyze it in scenarios involving widely-used data techniques such as data sampling and synthesis which aim to improve data quality."}
{"Title": "INDUS: Effective and Efficient Language Models for Scientific Applications", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) trained on general domain corpora showed remarkable results on natural language processing (NLP) tasks. However, previous research demonstrated LLMs trained using domain-focused corpora perform better on specialized tasks. Inspired by this insight, we developed INDUS, a comprehensive suite of LLMs tailored for the closely-related domains of Earth science, biology, physics, heliophysics, planetary sciences and astrophysics, and trained using curated scientific corpora drawn from diverse data sources. The suite of models include: (1) an encoder model trained using domain-specific vocabulary and corpora to address NLP tasks, (2) a contrastive-learning based text embedding model trained using a diverse set of datasets to address information retrieval tasks and (3) smaller versions of these models created using knowledge distillation for applications which have latency or resource constraints. We also created three new scientific benchmark datasets, Climate-Change NER (entity-recognition), NASA-QA (extractive QA) and NASA-IR (IR) to accelerate research in these multi-disciplinary fields. We show that our models outperform both general-purpose (RoBERTa) and domain- specific (SciBERT) encoders on these new tasks as well as existing tasks in the domains of interest. Furthermore, we demonstrate the use of these models in two industrial settings- as a retrieval model for large-scale vector search applications and in automatic content tagging systems."}
{"Title": "DL-QAT: Weight-Decomposed Low-Rank Quantization-Aware Training for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Improving the efficiency of inference in Large Language Models (LLMs) is a critical area of research. Post-training Quantization (PTQ) is a popular technique, but it often faces challenges at low-bit levels, particularly in downstream tasks. Quantization-aware Training (QAT) can alleviate this problem, but it requires significantly more computational resources. To tackle this, we introduced Weight-Decomposed Low-Rank Quantization-Aware Training (DL-QAT), which merges the advantages of QAT while training only less than 1{\\%} of the total parameters. Specifically, we introduce a group-specific quantization magnitude to adjust the overall scale of each quantization group. Within each quantization group, we use LoRA matrices to update the weight size and direction in the quantization space. We validated the effectiveness of our method on the LLaMA and LLaMA2 model families. The results show significant improvements over our baseline method across different quantization granularities. For instance, for LLaMA-7B, our approach outperforms the previous state-of-the-art method by 4.2{\\%} in MMLU on 3-bit LLaMA-7B. Additionally, our quantization results on pre-trained models also surpass previous QAT methods, demonstrating the superior performance and efficiency of our approach."}
{"Title": "Hybrid-RACA: Hybrid Retrieval-Augmented Composition Assistance for Real-time Text Prediction", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) enhanced with retrieval augmentation has shown great performance in many applications. However, the computational demands for these models pose a challenge when applying them to real-time tasks, such as composition assistance. To address this, we propose Hybrid Retrieval-Augmented Composition Assistance (Hybrid-RACA), a novel system for real-time text prediction that efficiently combines a cloud-based LLM with a smaller client-side model through retrieval augmented memory. This integration enables the client model to generate better responses, benefiting from the LLM{'}s capabilities and cloud-based data. Meanwhile, via a novel asynchronous memory update mechanism, the client model can deliver real-time completions to user inputs without the need to wait for responses from the cloud. Our experiments on five datasets demonstrate that Hybrid-RACA offers strong performance while maintaining low latency."}
{"Title": "LLMC: Benchmarking Large Language Model Quantization with a Versatile Compression Toolkit", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) are propelling us toward artificial general intelligence with their remarkable emergent abilities and reasoning capabilities. However, the substantial computational and memory requirements limit the widespread adoption. Quantization, a key compression technique, can effectively mitigate these demands by compressing and accelerating LLMs, albeit with potential risks to accuracy. Numerous studies have aimed to minimize the accuracy loss associated with quantization. However, their quantization configurations vary from each other and cannot be fairly compared. In this paper, we present LLMC, a plug-and-play compression toolkit, to fairly and systematically explore the impact of quantization. LLMC integrates dozens of algorithms, models, and hardware, offering high extensibility from integer to floating-point quantization, from LLM to vision-language (VLM) model, from fixed-bit to mixed precision, and from quantization to sparsification. Powered by this versatile toolkit, our benchmark covers three key aspects: calibration data, algorithms (three strategies), and data formats, providing novel insights and detailed analyses for further research and practical guidance for users. Our toolkit is available at https://github.com/ModelTC/llmc."}
{"Title": "PDFTriage: Question Answering over Long, Structured Documents", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have issues with document question answering (QA) in situations where the document is unable to fit in the small context length of an LLM. To overcome this issue, most existing works focus on retrieving the relevant context from the document, representing them as plain text. However, documents such as PDFs, web pages, and presentations are naturally structured with different pages, tables, sections, and so on. Representing such structured documents as plain text is incongruous with the user{'}s mental model of these documents with rich structure. When a system has to query the document for context, this incongruity is brought to the fore, and seemingly trivial questions can trip up the QA system. To bridge this fundamental gap in handling structured documents, we propose an approach called PDFTriage that enables models to retrieve the context based on either structure or content. Our experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed PDFTriage-augmented models across several classes of questions where existing retrieval-augmented LLMs fail. To facilitate further research on this fundamental problem, we release our benchmark dataset consisting of 900+ human-generated questions over 80 structured documents from 10 different categories of question types for document QA. Our code and datasets will be released soon on Github."}
{"Title": "Fairness-Aware Online Positive-Unlabeled Learning", "Abstract": "Machine learning applications for text classification are increasingly used in domains such as toxicity and misinformation detection in online settings. However, obtaining precisely labeled data for training remains challenging, particularly because not all problematic instances are reported. Positive-Unlabeled (PU) learning, which uses only labeled positive and unlabeled samples, offers a solution for these scenarios. A significant concern in PU learning, especially in online settings, is fairness: specific groups may be disproportionately classified as problematic. Despite its importance, this issue has not been explicitly addressed in research. This paper aims to bridge this gap by investigating the fairness of PU learning in both offline and online settings. We propose a novel approach to achieve more equitable results by extending PU learning methods to online learning for both linear and non-linear classifiers and analyzing the impact of the online setting on fairness. Our approach incorporates a convex fairness constraint during training, applicable to both offline and online PU learning. Our solution is theoretically robust, and experimental results demonstrate its efficacy in improving fairness in PU learning in text classification."}
{"Title": "SAAS: Solving Ability Amplification Strategy for Enhanced Mathematical Reasoning in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "This study presents a novel learning approach designed to enhance both mathematical reasoning and problem-solving abilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). We focus on integrating the Chain-of-Thought (CoT) and the Program-of-Thought (PoT) learning, hypothesizing that prioritizing the learning of mathematical reasoning ability is helpful for the amplification of problem-solving ability. Thus, the initial learning with CoT is essential for solving challenging mathematical problems. To this end, we propose a sequential learning approach, named SAAS (Solving Ability Amplification Strategy), which strategically transitions from CoT learning to PoT learning. Our empirical study, involving an extensive performance comparison using several benchmarks, demonstrates that our SAAS achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance. The results underscore the effectiveness of our sequential learning approach, marking a significant advancement in the field of mathematical reasoning in LLMs."}
{"Title": "Debiasing Text Safety Classifiers through a Fairness-Aware Ensemble", "Abstract": "Increasing use of large language models (LLMs) demand performant guardrails to ensure the safety of inputs and outputs of LLMs. When these safeguards are trained on imbalanced data, they can learn the societal biases. We present a light-weight, post-processing method for mitigating counterfactual fairness in closed-source text safety classifiers. Our approach involves building an ensemble that not only outperforms the input classifiers and policy-aligns them, but also acts as a debiasing regularizer. We introduce two threshold-agnostic metrics to assess the counterfactual fairness of a model, and demonstrate how combining these metrics with Fair Data Reweighting (FDW) helps mitigate biases. We create an expanded Open AI dataset, and a new templated LLM-generated dataset based on user-prompts, both of which are counterfactually balanced across identity groups and cover four key areas of safety; we will work towards publicly releasing these datasets. Our results show that our approach improves counterfactual fairness with minimal impact on model performance."}
{"Title": "Centrality-aware Product Retrieval and Ranking", "Abstract": "This paper addresses the challenge of improving user experience on e-commerce platforms by enhancing product ranking relevant to user{'}s search queries. Ambiguity and complexity of user queries often lead to a mismatch between user{'}s intent and retrieved product titles or documents. Recent approaches have proposed the use of Transformer-based models which need millions of annotated query-title pairs during the pre-training stage, and this data often does not take user intent into account. To tackle this, we curate samples from existing datasets at eBay, manually annotated with buyer-centric relevance scores, and centrality scores which reflect how well the product title matches the user{'}s intent. We introduce a User-intent Centrality Optimization (UCO) approach for existing models, which optimizes for the user intent in semantic product search. To that end, we propose a dual-loss based optimization to handle hard negatives, i.e., product titles that are semantically relevant but do not reflect the user{'}s intent. Our contributions include curating challenging evaluation sets and implementing UCO, resulting in significant improvements in product ranking efficiency, observed for different evaluation metrics. Our work aims to ensure that the most buyer-centric titles for a query are ranked higher, thereby, enhancing the user experience on e-commerce platforms."}
{"Title": "Fusion-Eval: Integrating Assistant Evaluators with LLMs", "Abstract": "Evaluating natural language generation (NLG) systems automatically poses significant challenges.Recent studies have employed large language models (LLMs) as reference-free metrics for NLG evaluation, enhancing adaptability to new tasks tasks. However, these methods still show lower correspondence with human judgments compared to specialized neural evaluators.In this paper, we introduce {``}Fusion-Eval{''}, an innovative approach that leverages LLMs to integrate insights from various assistant evaluators. The LLM is given the example to evaluate along with scores from the assistant evaluators. Each of these evaluators specializes in assessing distinct aspects of responses.Fusion-Eval achieves a 0.962 system-level Kendall-Tau correlation with humans on SummEval and a 0.744 turn-level Spearman correlation on TopicalChat, which is significantly higher than baseline methods. These results highlight Fusion-Eval{'}s significant potential in the realm of natural language system evaluation."}
{"Title": "Investigating the Personality Consistency in Quantized Role-Playing Dialogue Agents", "Abstract": "This study explores the consistency of personality traits in quantized large language models (LLMs) for edge device role-playing scenarios. Using the Big Five personality traits model, we evaluate how stable assigned personalities are for Quantized Role-Playing Dialog Agents (QRPDA) during multi-turn interactions. We evaluate multiple LLMs with various quantization levels, combining binary indexing of personality traits, explicit self-assessments, and linguistic analysis of narratives. To address personality inconsistency, we propose a non-parametric method called Think2. Our multi-faceted evaluation framework demonstrates Think2{'}s effectiveness in maintaining consistent personality traits for QRPDA. Moreover, we offer insights to help select the optimal model for QRPDA, improving its stability and reliability in real-world applications."}
{"Title": "Robust ASR Error Correction with Conservative Data Filtering", "Abstract": "Error correction (EC) based on large language models is an emerging technology to enhance the performance of automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems.Generally, training data for EC are collected by automatically pairing a large set of ASR hypotheses (as sources) and their gold references (as targets).However, the quality of such pairs is not guaranteed, and we observed various types of noise which can make the EC models brittle, e.g. inducing overcorrection in out-of-domain (OOD) settings.In this work, we propose two fundamental criteria that EC training data should satisfy: namely, EC targets should (1) improve linguistic acceptability over sources and (2) be inferable from the available context (e.g. source phonemes).Through these criteria, we identify low-quality EC pairs and train the models not to make any correction in such cases, the process we refer to as conservative data filtering.In our experiments, we focus on Japanese ASR using a strong Conformer-CTC as the baseline and finetune Japanese LLMs for EC.Through our evaluation on a suite of 21 internal benchmarks, we demonstrate that our approach can significantly reduce overcorrection and improve both the accuracy and quality of ASR results in the challenging OOD settings."}
{"Title": "Code Representation Pre-training with Complements from Program Executions", "Abstract": "Language models for natural language processing have been grafted onto programming language modeling for advancing code intelligence. Although it can be represented in the text format, code is syntactically more rigorous, as it is designed to be properly compiled or interpreted to perform a set of behaviors given any inputs. In this case, existing works benefit from syntactic representations to learn from code less ambiguously in forms of abstract syntax tree, control-flow graph, etc. However, programs with the same purpose can be implemented in various ways showing different syntactic representations, while the ones with similar implementations can have distinct behaviors. Though trivially demonstrated during executions, such semantics about functionality are challenging to be learned directly from code, especially in an unsupervised manner. Hence, in this paper, we propose FuzzPretrain to explore the dynamic information of programs revealed by their test cases and embed it into the feature representations of code as complements. The test cases are obtained with the assistance of a customized fuzzer and are only required during pre-training. FuzzPretrain yielded more than 6{\\%}/19{\\%} mAP improvements on code search over its masked language modeling counterparts trained with only source code and source code coupled with abstract syntax trees (ASTs), respectively. Our experiments show the benefits of learning discriminative code representations from FuzzPretrain."}
{"Title": "ScaleLLM: A Resource-Frugal LLM Serving Framework by Optimizing End-to-End Efficiency", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have surged in popularity and are extensively used in commercial applications, where the efficiency of model serving is crucial for the user experience. Most current research focuses on optimizing individual sub-procedures, e.g. local inference and communication, however, there is no comprehensive framework that provides a holistic system view for optimizing LLM serving in an end-to-end manner. In this work, we conduct a detailed analysis to identify major bottlenecks that impact end-to-end latency in LLM serving systems. Our analysis reveals that a comprehensive LLM serving endpoint must address a series of efficiency bottlenecks that extend beyond LLM inference. We then propose ScaleLLM, an optimized system for resource-efficient LLM serving. Our extensive experiments reveal that reveal that with 64 concurrent requests on Mixtral 8x7B, ScaleLLM achieves a 4.3{\\mbox{$\\times$}} speed up over vLLM and outperforms state-of-the-arts with 1.5{\\mbox{$\\times$}} higher throughput."}
{"Title": "Context Matters: Pushing the Boundaries of Open-Ended Answer Generation with Graph-Structured Knowledge Context", "Abstract": "This paper introduces a novel framework that combines graph-driven context retrieval in conjunction to knowledge graphs based enhancement, honing the proficiency of LLMs, especially in domain specific community question answering platforms like AskUbuntu, Unix, and ServerFault. We conduct experiments on various LLMs with different parameter sizes to evaluate their ability to ground knowledge and determine factual accuracy in answers to open-ended questions. Our methodology GraphContextGen consistently outperforms dominant text-based retrieval systems, demonstrating its robustness and adaptability to a larger number of use cases. This advancement highlights the importance of pairing context rich data retrieval with LLMs, offering a renewed approach to knowledge sourcing and generation in AI systems. We also show that, due to rich contextual data retrieval, the crucial entities, along with the generated answer, remain factually coherent with the gold answer. We shall release the source code and datasets upon acceptance."}
{"Title": "SHIELD: LLM-Driven Schema Induction for Predictive Analytics in EV Battery Supply Chain Disruptions", "Abstract": "The electric vehicle (EV) battery supply chain{'}s vulnerability to disruptions necessitates advanced predictive analytics. We present SHIELD (Schema-based Hierarchical Induction for EV supply chain Disruption), a system integrating Large Language Models (LLMs) with domain expertise for EV battery supply chain risk assessment. SHIELD combines: (1) LLM-driven schema learning to construct a comprehensive knowledge library, (2) a disruption analysis system utilizing fine-tuned language models for event extraction, multi-dimensional similarity matching for schema matching, and Graph Convolutional Networks (GCNs) with logical constraints for prediction, and (3) an interactive interface for visualizing results and incorporating expert feedback to enhance decision-making. Evaluated on 12,070 paragraphs from 365 sources (2022-2023), SHIELD outperforms baseline GCNs and LLM+prompt methods (e.g. GPT-4o) in disruption prediction. These results demonstrate SHIELD{'}s effectiveness in combining LLM capabilities with domain expertise for enhanced supply chain risk assessment."}
{"Title": "Divide-Conquer-Reasoning for Consistency Evaluation and Automatic Improvement of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Evaluating the quality and consistency of text generated by Large Language Models (LLMs) poses a significant, yet unresolved challenge for industry research. We propose , an automated framework for evaluating and improving the consistency of LLM-generated texts using a divide-conquer-reasoning approach. Unlike existing LLM-based evaluators operating at the paragraph level, our method employs a divide-and-conquer evaluator () that breaks down the paragraph-to-paragraph comparison into sentence-to-paragraph comparisons. To facilitate this approach, we also introduce an automatic metric converter () that translates the output from into an interpretable numeric score. Beyond the consistency evaluation, we further present a reason-assisted improver () that mitigates inconsistencies by leveraging the analytical reasons identified by . Through comprehensive and systematic empirical analysis, we show that our approach outperforms state-of-the-art methods by a large margin (e.g., +\\textbf{16.8}{\\%} and +\\textbf{32.5}{\\%} on the SummEval dataset) in consistency evaluation across multiple benchmarks. Our approach also substantially reduces nearly 90{\\%} output inconsistencies in one iteration, showing promise for effective hallucination mitigation in real-world industrial applications."}
{"Title": "Greenback Bears and Fiscal Hawks: Finance is a Jungle and Text Embeddings Must Adapt", "Abstract": "Financial documents are filled with specialized terminology, arcane jargon, and curious acronyms that pose challenges for general-purpose text embeddings. Yet, few text embeddings specialized for finance have been reported in the literature, perhaps in part due to a lack of public datasets and benchmarks. We present BAM embeddings, a set of text embeddings finetuned on a carefully constructed dataset of 14.3M query-passage pairs including both public and proprietary financial documents. Demonstrating the benefits of domain-specific training, BAM embeddings achieve Recall@1 of 62.8{\\%} on a held-out test set, vs. only 39.2{\\%} for the best general-purpose text embedding from OpenAI. Further, BAM embeddings increase question answering accuracy by 8{\\%} on FinanceBench and show increased sensitivity to the finance-specific elements that are found in detailed, forward-looking and company and date-specific queries. To support further research we describe our approach in detail, quantify the importance of hard negative mining and dataset scale, and publicly release our embeddings."}
{"Title": "TPTU-v2: Boosting Task Planning and Tool Usage of Large Language Model-based Agents in Real-world Industry Systems", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated proficiency in addressing tasks that necessitate a combination of task planning and the usage of external tools, such as weather and calculator APIs. However, real-world industrial systems present prevalent challenges in task planning and tool usage: numerous APIs in the real system make it intricate to invoke the appropriate one, while the inherent limitations of LLMs pose challenges in orchestrating an accurate sub-task sequence and API-calling order. This paper introduces a comprehensive framework aimed at enhancing the Task Planning and Tool Usage (TPTU) abilities of LLM-based agents in industry. Our framework comprises three key components designed to address these challenges: (1) the API Retriever selects the most pertinent APIs among the extensive API set; (2) the Demo Selector retrieves task-level demonstrations, which is further used for in-context learning to aid LLMs in accurately decomposing subtasks and effectively invoking hard-to-distinguish APIs; (3) LLM Finetuner tunes a base LLM to enhance its capability for task planning and API calling. We validate our methods using a real-world industry system and an open-sourced academic dataset, demonstrating the efficacy of each individual component as well as the integrated framework. The code is available at here."}
{"Title": "Detecting Ambiguous Utterances in an Intelligent Assistant", "Abstract": "In intelligent assistants that perform both chatting and tasks through dialogue, like Siri and Alexa, users often make ambiguous utterances such as {``}I{'}m hungry{''} or {``}I have a headache,{''} which can be interpreted as either chat or task intents. Naively determining these intents can lead to mismatched responses, spoiling the user experience. Therefore, it is desirable to determine the ambiguity of user utterances. We created a dataset from an actual intelligent assistant via crowdsourcing and analyzed tendencies of ambiguous utterances. Using this labeled data of chat, task, and ambiguous intents, we developed a supervised intent classification model. To detect ambiguous utterances robustly, we propose feeding sentence embeddings developed from microblogs and search logs with a self-attention mechanism. Experiments showed that our model outperformed two baselines, including a strong LLM-based one. We will release the dataset."}
{"Title": "GeoIndia: A Seq2Seq Geocoding Approach for Indian Addresses", "Abstract": "Geocoding, the conversion of unstructured geographic text into structured spatial data, is essential for logistics, urban planning, and location-based services. Indian addresses with their diverse languages, scripts, and formats present significant challenges that existing geocoding methods often fail to address, particularly at fine-grained resolutions. In this paper, we propose GeoIndia, a novel geocoding system designed specifically for Indian addresses using hierarchical H3-cell prediction within a Seq2Seq framework. Our methodology includes a comprehensive analysis of Indian addressing systems, leading to the development of a data correction strategy that enhances prediction accuracy. We investigate two model architectures, Flan-T5-base (T5) and Llama-3-8b (QLF-Llama-3), due to their strong sequence generation capabilities. We trained around 29 models with one dedicated to each state, and results show that our approach provides superior accuracy and reliability across multiple Indian states, outperforming the well-renowned geocoding platform Google Maps. In multiple states, we achieved more than an 50{\\%} reduction in mean distance error and more than a 85{\\%} reduction in 99th percentile distance error compared to Google Maps. This advancement can help in optimizing logistics in the e-commerce sector, reducing delivery failures and improving customer satisfaction."}
{"Title": "Moleco: Molecular Contrastive Learning with Chemical Language Models for Molecular Property Prediction", "Abstract": "Pre-trained chemical language models (CLMs) excel in the field of molecular property prediction, utilizing string-based molecular descriptors such as SMILES for learning universal representations. However, such string-based descriptors implicitly contain limited structural information, which is closely associated with molecular property prediction. In this work, we introduce Moleco, a novel contrastive learning framework to enhance the understanding of molecular structures within CLMs. Based on the similarity of fingerprint vectors among different molecules, we train CLMs to distinguish structurally similar and dissimilar molecules in a contrastive manner. Experimental results demonstrate that Moleco significantly improves the molecular property prediction performance of CLMs, outperforming state-of-the-art models. Moreover, our in-depth analysis with diverse Moleco variants verifies that fingerprint vectors are highly effective features in improving CLMs{'} understanding of the structural information of molecules."}
{"Title": "SEED: Semantic Knowledge Transfer for Language Model Adaptation to Materials Science", "Abstract": "Materials science is an interdisciplinary field focused on studying and discovering materials around us. However, due to the vast space of materials, datasets in this field are typically scarce and have limited coverage. This inherent limitation makes current adaptation methods less effective when adapting pre-trained language models (PLMs) to materials science, as these methods rely heavily on the frequency information from limited downstream datasets. In this paper, we propose Semantic Knowledge Transfer (SEED), a novel vocabulary expansion method to adapt the pre-trained language models for materials science. The core strategy of SEED is to transfer the materials knowledge of lightweight embeddings into the PLMs. To this end, we introduce knowledge bridge networks, which learn to transfer the latent knowledge of the materials embeddings into ones compatible with PLMs. By expanding the embedding layer of PLMs with these transformed embeddings, PLMs can comprehensively understand the complex terminology associated with materials science. We conduct extensive experiments across a broad range of materials-related benchmarks. Comprehensive evaluation results convincingly demonstrate that SEED mitigates the mentioned limitations of previous adaptation methods, showcasing the efficacy of transferring embedding knowledge into PLMs."}
{"Title": "News Risk Alerting System (NRAS): A Data-Driven LLM Approach to Proactive Credit Risk Monitoring", "Abstract": "Credit risk monitoring is an essential process for financial institutions to evaluate the creditworthiness of borrowing entities and minimize potential losses. Traditionally, this involves the periodic assessment of news regarding client companies to identify events which can impact their financial standing. This process can prove arduous and delay a timely response to credit impacting events. The News Risk Alerting System (NRAS) proactively identifies credit-relevant news related to clients and alerts the relevant Credit Officer (CO). This production system has been deployed for nearly three years and has alerted COs to over 2700 credit-relevant events with an estimated precision of 77{\\%}."}
{"Title": "FastAdaSP: Multitask-Adapted Efficient Inference for Large Speech Language Model", "Abstract": "In this study, we aim to explore Multitask Speech Language Model (SpeechLM) efficient inference via token reduction. Unlike other modalities such as vision or text, speech has unique temporal dependencies, making previous efficient inference works on other modalities not directly applicable. Furthermore, methods for efficient SpeechLM inference on long sequence and sparse signals remain largely unexplored. In this work, we propose FastAdaSP, a weighted token merging framework specifically designed for various speech-related tasks to improve the trade-off between efficiency and performance. Experimental results on WavLLM and Qwen-Audio show that our method achieves the state-of-the-art (SOTA) efficiency-performance trade-off compared with other baseline methods. Specifically, FastAdaSP achieved 7x memory efficiency and 1.83x decoding throughput without any degradation on tasks like Emotion Recognition (ER) and Spoken Question Answering (SQA)."}
{"Title": "TensorOpera Router: A Multi-Model Router for Efficient LLM Inference", "Abstract": "With the rapid growth of Large Language Models (LLMs) across various domains, numerous new LLMs have emerged, each possessing domain-specific expertise. This proliferation has highlighted the need for quick, high-quality, and cost-effective LLM query response methods. Yet, no single LLM exists to efficiently balance this trilemma. Some models are powerful but extremely costly, while others are fast and inexpensive but qualitatively inferior. To address this challenge, we present TO-Router, a non-monolithic LLM querying system that seamlessly integrates various LLM experts into a single query interface and dynamically routes incoming queries to the most high-performant expert based on query{'}s requirements. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that when compared to standalone expert models, TO-Router improves query efficiency by up to 40{\\%}, and leads to significant cost reductions of up to 30{\\%}, while maintaining or enhancing model performance by up to 10{\\%}."}
{"Title": "Prompt-Tuned Muti-Task Taxonomic Transformer (PTMTTaxoFormer)", "Abstract": "Hierarchical Text Classification (HTC) is a subclass of multi-label classification, it is challenging because the hierarchy typically has a large number of diverse topics. Existing methods for HTC fall within two categories, local methods (a classifier for each level, node, or parent) or global methods (a single classifier for everything). Local methods are computationally expensive, whereas global methods often require complex explicit injection of the hierarchy, verbalizers, and/or prompt engineering. In this work, we propose Prompt Tuned Multi Task Taxonomic Transformer, a single classifier that uses a multi-task objective to predict one or more topics. The approach is capable of understanding the hierarchy during training without explicit injection, complex heads, verbalizers, or prompt engineering. PTMTTaxoFormer is a novel model architecture and training paradigm using differentiable prompts and labels that are learnt through backpropagation. PTMTTaxoFormer achieves state of the art results on several HTC benchmarks that span a range of topics consistently. Compared to most other HTC models, it has a simpler yet effective architecture, making it more production-friendly in terms of latency requirements (a factor of 2-5 lower latency). It is also robust and label-efficient, outperforming other models with 15{\\%}-50{\\%} less training data."}
{"Title": "Arcee's MergeKit: A Toolkit for Merging Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The rapid growth of open-source language models provides the opportunity to merge model checkpoints, combining their parameters to improve performance and versatility. Advances in transfer learning have led to numerous task-specific models, which model merging can integrate into powerful multitask models without additional training. MergeKit is an open-source library designed to support this process with an efficient and extensible framework suitable for any hardware. It has facilitated the merging of thousands of models, contributing to some of the world{'}s most powerful open-source model checkpoints. The library is accessible at: https://github.com/arcee-ai/mergekit."}
{"Title": "Personal Large Language Model Agents: A Case Study on Tailored Travel Planning", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have made significant progress, becoming more autonomous and capable of handling real-world tasks through their access to tools, various planning strategies, and memory, referred to as LLM agents. One emerging area of focus is customizing these models to cater to individual user preferences, thereby shaping them into personal LLM agents. This work investigates how the user model, which encapsulates user-related information, preferences, and personal concepts, influences an LLM agent{'}s planning and reasoning capabilities. We introduce a personalized version of TravelPlanner, called TravelPlanner+, and establish baselines for personal LLM agents. Our evaluation strategy contains an LLM-as-a-Judge component, which provides further in-depth insights into the decision-making process of a personal LLM agent by comparing generic and personal plans. Our findings reveal that while generic plans perform robustly, personal plans show marked improvement in relevance and suitability, with preference rates up to 74.4{\\%} on validation and 87.3{\\%} on the test set. These results highlight the potential of personal LLM agents to significantly enhance user satisfaction."}
{"Title": "FanLoRA: Fantastic LoRAs and Where to Find Them in Large Language Model Fine-tuning", "Abstract": "Full-parameter fine-tuning is computationally prohibitive for large language models (LLMs), making parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods like low-rank adaptation (LoRA) increasingly popular. However, LoRA and its existing variants introduce significant latency in multi-tenant settings, hindering their applications in the industry. To address this issue, we propose the Fantastic LoRA (FanLoRA) framework, which consists of four steps: (a) adding LoRA modules to all the Transformer linear weights and fine-tuning on a large-scale instruction tuning dataset. (b) The importance of each module is then assessed using a novel importance scoring method. (c) only the most critical modules per layer are retained, resulting in the FanLoRA setting. (d) The FanLoRA setting is applied to fine-tune various downstream tasks. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that: (a) FanLoRA outperforms existing PEFT baselines across a wide collection of tasks with comparable tunable parameters. (b) FanLoRA significantly reduces the inference latency of LoRA, making it valuable for further broadening the applications of LLMs in the industry."}
{"Title": "ReportGPT: Human-in-the-loop Verifiable Table-to-Text Generation", "Abstract": "Recent developments in the quality and accessibility of large language models have precipitated a surge in user-facing tools for content generation. Motivated by a necessity for human quality control of these systems, we introduce ReportGPT: a pipeline framework for verifiable human-in-the-loop table-to-text generation. ReportGPT is based on a domain specific language, which acts as a proof mechanism for generating verifiable commentary. This allows users to quickly check the relevancy and factuality of model outputs. User selections then become few-shot examples for improving the performance of the pipeline. We configure 3 approaches to our pipeline, and find that usage of language models in ReportGPT{'}s components trade off precision for more insightful downstream commentary. Furthermore, ReportGPT learns from human feedback in real-time, needing only a few samples to improve performance."}
{"Title": "BPID: A Benchmark for Personal Identity Deduplication", "Abstract": "Data deduplication is a critical task in data management and mining, focused on consolidating duplicate records that refer to the same entity. Personally Identifiable Information (PII) is a critical class of data for deduplication across various industries. Consumer data, stored and generated through various engagement channels, is crucial for marketers, agencies, and publishers. However, a major challenge to PII data deduplication is the lack of open-source benchmark datasets due to stringent privacy concerns, which hinders the research, development, and evaluation of robust solutions.This paper addresses this critical lack of PII deduplication benchmarks by introducing the first open-source, high-quality dataset for this task. We provide two datasets: one with 1,000,000 unlabeled synthetic PII profiles and a subset of 10,000 pairs curated and labeled by trained annotators as matches or non-matches. Our datasets contain synthetic profiles built from publicly available sources that do not represent any real individuals, thus ensuring privacy and ethical compliance. We provide several challenging data variations to evaluate the effectiveness of various deduplication techniques, including traditional supervised methods, deep-learning approaches, and large language models (LLMs). Our work aims to set a new standard for PII deduplication, paving the way for more accurate and secure solutions. We share our data publicly at this link - https://zenodo.org/records/13932202."}
{"Title": "MERLIN: Multimodal Embedding Refinement via LLM-based Iterative Navigation for Text-Video Retrieval-Rerank Pipeline", "Abstract": "The rapid expansion of multimedia content has made accurately retrieving relevant videos from large collections increasingly challenging. Recent advancements in text-video retrieval have focused on cross-modal interactions, large-scale foundation model training, and probabilistic modeling, yet often neglect the crucial user perspective, leading to discrepancies between user queries and the content retrieved. To address this, we introduce MERLIN (Multimodal Embedding Refinement via LLM-based Iterative Navigation), a novel, training-free pipeline that leverages Large Language Models (LLMs) for iterative feedback learning. MERLIN refines query embeddings from a user perspective, enhancing alignment between queries and video content through a dynamic question answering process. Experimental results on datasets like MSR-VTT, MSVD, and ActivityNet demonstrate that MERLIN substantially improves Recall@1, outperforming existing systems and confirming the benefits of integrating LLMs into multimodal retrieval systems for more responsive and context-aware multimedia retrieval."}
{"Title": "Identifying High Consideration E-Commerce Search Queries", "Abstract": "In e-commerce, high consideration search missions typically require careful and elaborate decision making, and involve a substantial research investment from customers. We consider the task of identifying High Consideration (HC) queries. Identifying such queries enables e-commerce sites to better serve user needs using targeted experiences such as curated QA widgets that help users reach purchase decisions. We explore the task by proposing an Engagement-based Query Ranking (EQR) approach, focusing on query ranking to indicate potential engagement levels with query-related shopping knowledge content during product search. Unlike previous studies on predicting trends, EQR prioritizes query-level features related to customer behavior, finance, and catalog information rather than popularity signals. We introduce an accurate and scalable method for EQR and present experimental results demonstrating its effectiveness. Offline experiments show strong ranking performance. Human evaluation shows a precision of 96{\\%} for HC queries identified by our model. The model was commercially deployed, and shown to outperform human-selected queries in terms of downstream customer impact, as measured through engagement."}
{"Title": "Sample Design Engineering: An Empirical Study on Designing Better Fine-Tuning Samples for Information Extraction with LLMs", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have achieved significant leadership in many NLP tasks, but aligning structured output with generative models in information extraction (IE) tasks remains a challenge. Prompt Engineering (PE) is renowned for improving IE performance through prompt modifications. However, the realm of the sample design for downstream fine-tuning, crucial for task-specific LLM adaptation, is largely unexplored. This paper introduces **Sample Design Engineering** (SDE), a methodical approach to enhancing LLMs{'} post-tuning performance on IE tasks by refining input, output, and reasoning designs. Through extensive ID and OOD experiments across six LLMs, we first assess the impact of various design options on IE performance, revealing several intriguing patterns. Based on these insights, we then propose an integrated SDE strategy and validate its consistent superiority over heuristic sample designs on three complex IE tasks with four additional LLMs, demonstrating the generality of our method. Additionally, analyses of LLMs{'} inherent prompt/output perplexity, zero-shot, and ICL abilities illustrate that good PE strategies may not always translate to good SDE strategies."}
{"Title": "Refining App Reviews: Dataset, Methodology, and Evaluation", "Abstract": "With the growing number of mobile users, app development has become increasingly lucrative. Reviews on platforms such as Google Play and Apple App Store provide valuable insights to developers, highlighting bugs, suggesting new features, and offering feedback. However, many reviews contain typos, spelling errors, grammar mistakes, and complex sentences, hindering efficient interpretation and slowing down app improvement processes. To tackle this, we introduce RARE (Repository for App review REfinement), a benchmark dataset of 10,000 annotated pairs of original and refined reviews from 10 mobile applications. These reviews were collaboratively refined by humans and large language models (LLMs). We also conducted an evaluation of eight state-of-the-art LLMs for automated review refinement. The top-performing model (Flan-T5) was further used to refine an additional 10,000 reviews, contributing to RARE as a silver corpus."}
{"Title": "TelBench: A Benchmark for Evaluating Telco-Specific Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The telecommunications industry, characterized by its vast customer base and complex service offerings, necessitates a high level of domain expertise and proficiency in customer service center operations. Consequently, there is a growing demand for Large Language Models (LLMs) to augment the capabilities of customer service representatives. This paper introduces a methodology for developing a specialized Telecommunications LLM (Telco LLM) designed to enhance the efficiency of customer service agents and promote consistency in service quality across representatives. We present the construction process of TelBench, a novel dataset created for performance evaluation of customer service expertise in the telecommunications domain. We also evaluate various LLMs and demonstrate the ability to benchmark both proprietary and open-source LLMs on predefined telecommunications-related tasks, thereby establishing metrics that define telcommunications performance."}
{"Title": "RRADistill: Distilling LLMs' Passage Ranking Ability for Long-Tail Queries Document Re-Ranking on a Search Engine", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) excel at understanding the semantic relationships between queries and documents, even with lengthy and complex long-tail queries. These queries are challenging for feedback-based rankings due to sparse user engagement and limited feedback, making LLMs{'} ranking ability highly valuable. However, the large size and slow inference of LLMs necessitate the development of smaller, more efficient models (sLLMs). Recently, integrating ranking label generation into distillation techniques has become crucial, but existing methods underutilize LLMs{'} capabilities and are cumbersome. Our research, RRADistill: Re-Ranking Ability Distillation, propose an efficient label generation pipeline and novel sLLM training methods for both encoder and decoder models. We introduce an encoder-based method using a Term Control Layer to capture term matching signals and a decoder-based model with a ranking layer for enhanced understanding. A/B testing on a Korean-based search platform, validates the effectiveness of our approach in improving re-ranking for long-tail queries."}
{"Title": "KorSmishing Explainer: A Korean-centric LLM-based Framework for Smishing Detection and Explanation Generation", "Abstract": "To mitigate the annual financial losses caused by SMS phishing (smishing) in South Korea, we propose an explainable smishing detection framework that adapts to a Korean-centric large language model (LLM). Our framework not only classifies smishing attempts but also provides clear explanations, enabling users to identify and understand these threats. This end-to-end solution encompasses data collection, pseudo-label generation, and parameter-efficient task adaptation for models with fewer than five billion parameters. Our approach achieves a 15{\\%} improvement in accuracy over GPT-4 and generates high-quality explanatory text, as validated by seven automatic metrics and qualitative evaluation, including human assessments."}
{"Title": "Time Matters: An End-to-End Solution for Temporal Claim Verification", "Abstract": "Automated claim verification plays an essential role in fostering trust in the digital space. Despite the growing interest, the verification of temporal claims has not received much attention in the community. Temporal claim verification brings new challenges where cues of the temporal information need to be extracted, and temporal reasoning involving various temporal aspects of the text must be applied.In this work, we describe an end-to-end solution for temporal claim verification that considers the temporal information in claims to obtain relevant evidence sentences and harnesses the power of a large language model for temporal reasoning. We curate two datasets comprising a diverse range of temporal claims to learn time-sensitive representations that encapsulate not only the semantic relationships among the events, but also their chronological proximity.Experiment results demonstrate that the proposed approach significantly enhances the accuracy of temporal claim verification, thereby advancing current state-of-the-art in automated claim verification."}
{"Title": "MILD Bot: Multidisciplinary Childhood Cancer Survivor Question-Answering Bot", "Abstract": "This study introduces a Multidisciplinary chILDhood cancer survivor question-answering (MILD) bot designed to support childhood cancer survivors facing diverse challenges in their survivorship journey. In South Korea, a shortage of experts equipped to address these unique concerns comprehensively leaves survivors with limited access to reliable information. To bridge this gap, our MILD bot employs a dual-component model featuring an intent classifier and a semantic textual similarity model. The intent classifier first analyzes the user{'}s query to identify the underlying intent and match it with the most suitable expert who can provide advice. Then, the semantic textual similarity model identifies questions in a predefined dataset that closely align with the user{'}s query, ensuring the delivery of relevant responses. This proposed framework shows significant promise in offering timely, accurate, and high-quality information, effectively addressing a critical need for support among childhood cancer survivors."}
{"Title": "Breaking the Hourglass Phenomenon of Residual Quantization: Enhancing the Upper Bound of Generative Retrieval", "Abstract": "Generative retrieval (GR) has emerged as a transformative paradigm in search and recommender systems, leveraging numeric-based identifier representations to enhance efficiency and generalization. Notably, methods like TIGER, which employ Residual Quantization-based Semantic Identifiers (RQ-SID), have shown significant promise in e-commerce scenarios by effectively managing item IDs. However, a critical issue termed the ''\\textbf{Hourglass}'' phenomenon, occurs in RQ-SID, where intermediate codebook tokens become overly concentrated, hindering the full utilization of generative retrieval methods. This paper analyses and addresses this problem by identifying data sparsity and long-tailed distribution as the primary causes. Through comprehensive experiments and detailed ablation studies, we analyze the impact of these factors on codebook utilization and data distribution. Our findings reveal that the {``}Hourglass{''} phenomenon substantially impacts the performance of RQ-SID in generative retrieval. We propose effective solutions to mitigate this issue, thereby significantly enhancing the effectiveness of generative retrieval in real-world E-commerce applications."}
{"Title": "Improving Few-Shot Cross-Domain Named Entity Recognition by Instruction Tuning a Word-Embedding based Retrieval Augmented Large Language Model", "Abstract": "Few-Shot Cross-Domain NER is the process of leveraging knowledge from data-rich source domains to perform entity recognition on data-scarce target domains. Most previous state-of-the-art (SOTA) approaches use pre-trained language models (PLMs) for cross-domain NER. However, these models are often domain specific. To successfully use these models for new target domains, we need to modify either the model architecture or perform model fine-tuning using data from the new domains. Both of these result in the creation of entirely new NER models for each target domain which is infeasible for practical scenarios. Recently, several works have attempted to use LLMs to solve Few-Shot Cross-Domain NER. However, most of these are either too expensive for practical purposes or struggle to follow LLM prompt instructions. In this paper, we propose IF-WRANER (Instruction Finetuned Word-embedding based Retrieval Augmented large language model for Named Entity Recognition), a retrieval augmented LLM, finetuned for the NER task. By virtue of the regularization techniques used during LLM finetuning and the adoption of word-level embedding over sentence-level embedding during the retrieval of in-prompt examples, IF-WRANER is able to outperform previous SOTA Few-Shot Cross-Domain NER approaches. We have demonstrated the effectiveness of our model by benchmarking its performance on the open source CrossNER dataset, on which it shows more than 2{\\%} F1 score improvement over the previous SOTA model. We have deployed the model for multiple customer care domains of an enterprise. Accurate entity prediction through IF-WRANER helps direct customers to automated workflows for the domains, thereby reducing escalations to human agents by almost 15{\\%} and leading to millions of dollars in yearly savings for the company."}
{"Title": "IPL: Leveraging Multimodal Large Language Models for Intelligent Product Listing", "Abstract": "Unlike professional Business-to-Consumer (B2C) e-commerce platforms (e.g., Amazon), Consumer-to-Consumer (C2C) platforms (e.g., Facebook marketplace) are mainly targeting individual sellers who usually lack sufficient experience in e-commerce. Individual sellers often struggle to compose proper descriptions for selling products. With the recent advancement of Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs), we attempt to integrate such state-of-the-art generative AI technologies into the product listing process. To this end, we develop IPL, an Intelligent Product Listing tool tailored to generate descriptions using various product attributes such as category, brand, color, condition, etc. IPL enables users to compose product descriptions by merely uploading photos of the selling product. More importantly, it can imitate the content style of our C2C platform Xianyu. This is achieved by employing domain-specific instruction tuning on MLLMs, and by adopting the multi-modal Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) process. A comprehensive empirical evaluation demonstrates that the underlying model of IPL significantly outperforms the base model in domain-specific tasks while producing less hallucination. IPL has been successfully deployed in our production system, where 72{\\%} of users have their published product listings based on the generated content, and those product listings are shown to have a quality score 5.6{\\%} higher than those without AI assistance."}
{"Title": "QDyLoRA: Quantized Dynamic Low-Rank Adaptation for Efficient Large Language Model Tuning", "Abstract": "Finetuning large language models requires huge GPU memory, restricting the choice to acquire Larger models. While the quantized version of the Low-Rank Adaptation technique, named QLoRA, significantly alleviates this issue, finding the efficient LoRA rank is still challenging. Moreover, QLoRA is trained on a pre-defined rank and, therefore, cannot be reconfigured for its lower ranks without requiring further fine-tuning steps. This paper proposes QDyLoRA -Quantized Dynamic Low-Rank Adaptation-, as an efficient quantization approach for dynamic low-rank adaptation. Motivated by Dynamic LoRA, QDyLoRA is able to efficiently finetune LLMs on a set of pre-defined LoRA ranks. QDyLoRA enables fine-tuning Falcon-40b for ranks 1 to 64 on a single 32 GB V100-GPU through one round of fine-tuning. Experimental results show that QDyLoRA is competitive to QLoRA and outperforms when employing its optimal rank."}
{"Title": "Improving Hierarchical Text Clustering with LLM-guided Multi-view Cluster Representation", "Abstract": "In this work, we present an approach that introduces different perspectives or views to improve the quality of hierarchical clustering of interaction drivers in a contact center. Specifically, we present a multi-stage approach that introduces LLM-guided multi-view cluster representation that significantly improves the quality of generated clusters. Our approach improves average Silhouette Score by upto 70{\\%} and Human Preference Scores by 36.7{\\%} for top-level clusters compared to standard agglomerative clustering for the given business use-case. We also present how the proposed approach can be adapted to cater to a standard non-hierarchical clustering use-cases where it achieves state-of-the-art performance on public datasets based on NMI and ACC scores, with minimal number of LLM queries compared to the current state-of-the-art approaches. Moreover, we apply our technique to generate two new labeled datasets for hierarchical clustering. We open-source these labeled datasets, validated and corrected by domain experts, for the benefit of the research community."}
{"Title": "PARA: Parameter-Efficient Fine-tuning with Prompt-Aware Representation Adjustment", "Abstract": "In the realm of parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods, while options like LoRA are available, there is a persistent demand in the industry for a PEFT approach that excels in both efficiency and performance within the context of single-backbone multi-tenant applications. This paper introduces a new and straightforward PEFT technique, termed Prompt Aware Representation Adjustment (PARA). The core of our proposal is to integrate a lightweight vector generator within each Transformer layer. This generator produces vectors that are responsive to input prompts, thereby adjusting the hidden representations accordingly. Our extensive experimentation across diverse tasks has yielded promising results. Firstly, the PARA method has been shown to surpass current PEFT benchmarks in terms of performance, despite having a similar number of adjustable parameters. Secondly, it has proven to be more efficient than LoRA in the single-backbone multi-tenant scenario, highlighting its significant potential for industrial adoption."}
{"Title": "RAG4ITOps: A Supervised Fine-Tunable and Comprehensive RAG Framework for IT Operations and Maintenance", "Abstract": "With the ever-increasing demands on Question Answering (QA) systems for IT operations and maintenance, an efficient and supervised fine-tunable framework is necessary to ensure the data security, private deployment and continuous upgrading. Although Large Language Models (LLMs) have notably improved the open-domain QA{'}s performance, how to efficiently handle enterprise-exclusive corpora and build domain-specific QA systems are still less-studied for industrial applications. In this paper, we propose a general and comprehensive framework based on Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) and facilitate the whole business process of establishing QA systems for IT operations and maintenance. In accordance with the prevailing RAG method, our proposed framework, named with RAG4ITOps, composes of two major stages: (1) Models Fine-tuning {\\&} Data Vectorization, and (2) Online QA System Process. At the Stage 1, we leverage a contrastive learning method with two negative sampling strategies to fine-tune the embedding model, and design the instruction templates to fine-tune the LLM with a Retrieval Augmented Fine-Tuning method. At the Stage 2, an efficient process of QA system is built for serving. We collect enterprise-exclusive corpora from the domain of cloud computing, and the extensive experiments show that our method achieves superior results than counterparts on two kinds of QA tasks. Our experiment also provide a case for applying the RAG4ITOps to real-world enterprise-level applications."}
{"Title": "ULMR: Unlearning Large Language Models via Negative Response and Model Parameter Average", "Abstract": "In recent years, large language models (LLMs) have attracted significant interest from the research community due to their broad applicability in many language-oriented tasks, and are now widely used in numerous areas of production and daily life. One source of the powerful capabilities of LLMs is the massive scale of their pre-training dataset. However, these pre-training datasets contain many outdated, harmful, and personally sensitive information, which inevitably becomes memorized by LLM during the pre-training process. Eliminating this undesirable data is crucial for ensuring the model{'}s safety and enhancing the user experience. However, the cost of extensively cleaning the pre-training dataset and retraining the model from scratch is very high. In this work, we propose ULMR , a unlearning framework for LLMs , which first uses carefully designed prompts to rewrite the instructions in the specified dataset, and generate corresponding negative responses. Subsequently, to ensure that the model does not excessively deviate post-training, we perform model parameter averaging to preserve the performance of the original LLM. We conducted experiments on two public datasets, TOFU and RWKU, demonstrating that our method can effectively forget specified information while retaining the capabilities of the original LLM."}
{"Title": "Pretraining and Finetuning Language Models on Geospatial Networks for Accurate Address Matching", "Abstract": "We propose a novel framework for pretraining and fine-tuning language models with the goal of determining whether two addresses represent the same physical building. Address matching and building authoritative address catalogues are important to many applications and businesses, such as delivery services, online retail, emergency services, logistics, etc. We propose to view a collection of addresses as an address graph and curate inputs for language models by placing geospatially linked addresses in the same context. Our approach jointly integrates concepts from graph theory and weak supervision with address text and geospatial semantics. This integration enables us to generate informative and diverse address pairs, facilitating pretraining and fine-tuning in a self-supervised manner. Experiments and ablation studies on manually curated datasets and comparisons with state-of-the-art techniques demonstrate the efficacy of our approach. We achieve a 24.49{\\%} improvement in recall while maintaining 95{\\%} precision on average, in comparison to the current baseline across multiple geographies. Further, we deploy our proposed approach and show the positive impact of improving address matching on geocode learning."}
{"Title": "SMARTCAL: An Approach to Self-Aware Tool-Use Evaluation and Calibration", "Abstract": "The tool-use ability of Large Language Models (LLMs) has a profound impact on a wide range of applications. However, LLMs{'} self-awareness and self-control capability in appropriately using tools remains understudied. The problem is consequential as it alarms a potential risk of degraded performance and poses a threat to trustworthiness on the models. In this paper, we conduct a study on a family of state-of-the-art LLMs on three datasets with two mainstream tool-use frameworks. Our study reveals the tool-abuse behavior of LLMs, a tendency for models to misuse tools along with models{'} frequent overconfidence in tool choice. We also find that this is a common issue regardless of model capability. Accordingly, we propose a novel framework, SMARTCAL, to mitigate the observed issues, and our results show an average 8.6 percent increase in the QA performance in three testing datasets and 21.6 percent lower Expected Calibration Error (ECE) than existing methods."}
{"Title": "Probing the Depths of Language Models' Contact-Center Knowledge for Quality Assurance", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in large Language Models (LMs) have significantly enhanced their capabilities across various domains, including natural language understanding and generation. In this paper, we investigate the application of LMs to the specialized task of contact-center Quality Assurance (QA), which involves evaluating conversations between human agents and customers. This task requires both sophisticated linguistic understanding and deep domain knowledge. We conduct a comprehensive assessment of eight LMs, revealing that larger models, such as Claude-3.5-Sonnet, exhibit superior performance in comprehending contact-center conversations. We introduce methodologies to transfer this domain-specific knowledge to smaller models by leveraging evaluation plans generated by more knowledgeable models, with optional human-in-the-loop refinement to enhance the capabilities of smaller models. Notably, our experimental results demonstrate an improvement of up to 18.95{\\%} in Macro F1 on an in-house QA dataset. Our findings emphasize the importance of evaluation plans in guiding reasoning and highlight the potential of AI-assisted tools to advance objective, consistent, and scalable agent evaluation processes in contact centers."}
{"Title": "Intelligent Predictive Maintenance RAG framework for Power Plants: Enhancing QA with StyleDFS and Domain Specific Instruction Tuning", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Structured Object Language Modeling (SO-LM): Native Structured Objects Generation Conforming to Complex Schemas with Self-Supervised Denoising", "Abstract": "In this paper, we study the problem of generating structured objects that conform to a complex schema, with intricate dependencies between the different components (facets) of the object. The facets of the object (attributes, fields, columns, properties) can be a mix of short, structured facts, or long natural-language descriptions. The object has to be self-consistent between the different facets in the redundant information it carries (relative consistency), while being grounded with respect to world knowledge (absolute consistency). We frame the problem as a Language Modeling problem (Structured Object Language Modeling) and train an LLM to perform the task natively, without requiring instructions or prompt-engineering. We propose a self-supervised denoising method to train the model from an existing dataset of such objects. The input query can be the existing object itself, in which case the system acts as a regenerator, completing, correcting, normalizing the input, or any unstructured blurb to be structured. We show that the self-supervised denoising training provides a strong baseline, and that additional supervised fine-tuning with small amount of human demonstrations leads to further improvement. Experimental results show that the proposed method matches or outperforms prompt-engineered general-purpose state-of-the-art LLMs (Claude 3, Mixtral-8x7B), while being order-of-magnitude more cost-efficient."}
{"Title": "Assisting Breastfeeding and Maternity Experts in Responding to User Queries with an AI-in-the-loop Approach", "Abstract": "Breastfeeding and Maternity experts are a scarce resource and engaging in a conversation with mothers on such a sensitive topic is a time-consuming effort. We present our journey and rationale in assisting experts to answer queries about Breastfeeding and Maternity topics from users, mainly mothers. We started by developing a RAG approach to response generation where the generated response is made available to the expert who has the option to draft an answer using the generated text or to answer from scratch. This was the start of an ongoing effort to develop a pipeline of AI/NLP-based functionalities to help experts understand user queries and craft their responses."}
{"Title": "A Hassle-free Algorithm for Strong Differential Privacy in Federated Learning Systems", "Abstract": "Differential privacy (DP) and federated learning (FL) are combined as advanced privacy-preserving methods when training on-device language models in production mobile keyboard applications. DP-Follow-the-Regularized-Leader (DP-FTRL) algorithms, leveraging correlated noise mechanisms such as tree aggregation or matrix factorization, are widely used in practice for their superior privacy-utility trade-off and compatibility with FL systems. This paper presents a novel variant of DP-FTRL by adapting the recent theoretical advancements of the Buffered Linear Toeplitz (BLT) mechanism to multi-participant scenarios. In the FL setting, our BLT mechanism demonstrates enhanced privacy-utility trade-off and improved memory efficiency than the widely used tree aggregation mechanism. Moreover, BLT achieves comparable privacy and utility to the state-of-the-art banded matrix factorization mechanism, while significantly simplifying usage requirements and reducing memory. The flexibility of the BLT mechanism allows seamless integration with existing DP FL implementations in production environments. We evaluate the BLT-DP-FTRL algorithm on the StackOverflow dataset, serving as a research simulation benchmark, and across four on-device language model tasks in a production FL system. Our empirical results highlight the potential of the BLT mechanism to elevate the practicality and effectiveness of DP in real-world scenarios."}
{"Title": "ProConSuL: Project Context for Code Summarization with LLMs", "Abstract": "We propose Project Context for Code Summarization with LLMs (ProConSuL), a new framework to provide a large language model (LLM) with precise information about the code structure from program analysis methods such as a compiler or IDE language services and use task decomposition derived from the code structure. ProConSuL builds a call graph to provide the context from callees and uses a two-phase training method (SFT + preference alignment) to train the model to use the project context. We also provide a new evaluation benchmark for C/C++ functions and a set of proxy metrics. Experimental results demonstrate that ProConSuL allows to significantly improve code summaries and reduce the number of hallucinations compared to the base model (CodeLlama-7B-instruct). We make our code and dataset available at https://github.com/TypingCat13/ProConSuL."}
{"Title": "Retrieval Augmented Generation or Long-Context LLMs? A Comprehensive Study and Hybrid Approach", "Abstract": "Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) has been a powerful tool for Large Language Models (LLMs) to efficiently process overly lengthy contexts. However, recent LLMs like Gemini-1.5 and GPT-4 show exceptional capabilities to understand long contexts directly. We conduct a comprehensive comparison between RAG and long-context (LC) LLMs, aiming to leverage the strengths of both. We benchmark RAG and LC across various public datasets using three latest LLMs. Results reveal that when resourced sufficiently, LC consistently outperforms RAG in terms of average performance. However, RAG{'}s significantly lower cost remains a distinct advantage. Based on this observation, we propose Self-Route, a simple yet effective method that routes queries to RAG or LC based on model self-reflection. Self-Route significantly reduces the computation cost while maintaining a comparable performance to LC. Our findings provide a guideline for long-context applications of LLMs using RAG and LC."}
{"Title": "MARS: Multilingual Aspect-centric Review Summarisation", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "A new approach for fine-tuning sentence transformers for intent classification and out-of-scope detection tasks", "Abstract": "In virtual assistant (VA) systems it is important to reject or redirect user queries that fall outside the scope of the system. One of the most accurate approaches for out-of-scope (OOS) rejection is to combine it with the task of intent classification on in-scope queries, and to use methods based on the similarity of embeddings produced by transformer-based sentence encoders. Typically, such encoders are fine-tuned for the intent-classification task, using cross-entropy loss. Recent work has shown that while this produces suitable embeddings for the intent-classification task, it also tends to disperse in-scope embeddings over the full sentence embedding space. This causes the in-scope embeddings to potentially overlap with OOS embeddings, thereby making OOS rejection difficult. This is compounded when OOS data is unknown. To mitigate this issue our work proposes to regularize the cross-entropy loss with an in-scope embedding reconstruction loss learned using an auto-encoder. Our method achieves a 1-4{\\%} improvement in the area under the precision-recall curve for rejecting out-of-sample (OOS) instances, without compromising intent classification performance."}
{"Title": "Tell me what I need to know: Exploring LLM-based (Personalized) Abstractive Multi-Source Meeting Summarization", "Abstract": "Meeting summarization is crucial in digital communication, but existing solutions struggle with salience identification to generate personalized, workable summaries, and context understanding to fully comprehend the meetings{'} content.Previous attempts to address these issues by considering related supplementary resources (e.g., presentation slides) alongside transcripts are hindered by models{'} limited context sizes and handling the additional complexities of the multi-source tasks, such as identifying relevant information in additional files and seamlessly aligning it with the meeting content.This work explores multi-source meeting summarization considering supplementary materials through a three-stage large language model approach: identifying transcript passages needing additional context, inferring relevant details from supplementary materials and inserting them into the transcript, and generating a summary from this enriched transcript.Our multi-source approach enhances model understanding, increasing summary relevance by {\\textasciitilde}9{\\%} and producing more content-rich outputs.We introduce a personalization protocol that extracts participant characteristics and tailors summaries accordingly, improving informativeness by {\\textasciitilde}10{\\%}.This work further provides insights on performance-cost trade-offs across four leading model families, including edge-device capable options.Our approach can be extended to similar complex generative tasks benefitting from additional resources and personalization, such as dialogue systems and action planning."}
{"Title": "Detecting LLM-Assisted Cheating on Open-Ended Writing Tasks on Language Proficiency Tests", "Abstract": "The high capability of recent Large Language Models (LLMs) has led to concerns about possible misuse as cheating assistants in open-ended writing tasks in assessments. Although various detecting methods have been proposed, most of them have not been evaluated on or optimized for real-world samples from LLM-assisted cheating, where the generated text is often copy-typed imperfectly by the test-taker. In this paper, we present a framework for training LLM-generated text detectors that can effectively detect LLM-generated samples after being copy-typed. We enhance the existing transformer-based classifier training process with contrastive learning on constructed pairwise data and self-training on unlabeled data, and evaluate the improvements on a real-world dataset from the Duolingo English Test (DET), a high-stakes online English proficiency test. Our experiments demonstrate that the improved model outperforms the original transformer-based classifier and other baselines."}
{"Title": "Can Machine Unlearning Reduce Social Bias in Language Models?", "Abstract": "Mitigating bias in language models (LMs) has become a critical problem due to the widespread deployment of LMs in the industry and customer-facing applications. Numerous approaches revolve around data pre-processing and subsequent fine-tuning of language models, tasks that can be both time-consuming and computationally demanding. As alternatives, machine unlearning techniques are being explored, yet there is a notable lack of comparative studies evaluating the effectiveness of these methods. In this work, we explore the effectiveness of two machine unlearning methods: Partitioned Contrastive Gradient Unlearning (PCGU) applied on decoder models, and Negation via Task Vector, and compare them with Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) to reduce social biases in open-source LMs such as LLaMA-2 and OPT. We also implement distributed PCGU for large models. It is empirically shown, through quantitative and qualitative analyses, that negation via Task Vector method outperforms PCGU and is comparable to DPO in debiasing models with minimum deterioration in model performance and perplexity. Negation via Task Vector reduces the bias score by 25.5{\\%} for LLaMA-2 and achieves bias reduction of up to 40{\\%} for OPT models. Moreover, it can be easily tuned to balance the trade-off between bias reduction and generation quality, unlike DPO."}
{"Title": "Don't be my Doctor! Recognizing Healthcare Advice in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have seen increasing popularity in daily use, with their widespread adoption by many corporations as virtual assistants, chatbots, predictors, and many more. Their growing influence raises the need for safeguards and guardrails to ensure that the outputs from LLMs do not mislead or harm users. This is especially true for highly regulated domains such as healthcare, where misleading advice may influence users to unknowingly commit malpractice. Despite this vulnerability, the majority of guardrail benchmarking datasets do not focus enough on medical advice specifically. In this paper, we present the HeAL benchmark (HEalth Advice in LLMs), a health-advice benchmark dataset that has been manually curated and annotated to evaluate LLMs{'} capability in recognizing health-advice - which we use to safeguard LLMs deployed in industrial settings. We use HeAL to assess several models and report a detailed analysis of the findings."}
{"Title": "Building an Efficient Multilingual Non-Profit IR System for the Islamic Domain Leveraging Multiprocessing Design in Rust", "Abstract": "The widespread use of large language models (LLMs) has dramatically improved many applications of Natural Language Processing (NLP), including Information Retrieval (IR). However, domains that are not driven by commercial interest often lag behind in benefiting from AI-powered solutions. One such area is religious and heritage corpora. Alongside similar domains, Islamic literature holds significant cultural value and is regularly utilized by scholars and the general public. Navigating this extensive amount of text is challenging, and there is currently no unified resource that allows for easy searching of this data using advanced AI tools. This work focuses on the development of a multilingual non-profit IR system for the Islamic domain. This process brings a few major challenges, such as preparing multilingual domain-specific corpora when data is limited in certain languages, deploying a model on resource-constrained devices, and enabling fast search on a limited budget. By employing methods like continued pre-training for domain adaptation and language reduction to decrease model size, a lightweight multilingual retrieval model was prepared, demonstrating superior performance compared to larger models pre-trained on general domain data. Furthermore, evaluating the proposed architecture that utilizes Rust Language capabilities shows the possibility of implementing efficient semantic search in a low-resource setting."}
{"Title": "Adapting LLMs for Structured Natural Language API Integration", "Abstract": "API integration is crucial for enterprise systems, as it enables seamless interaction between applications within workflows. However, the diversity and complexity of the API landscape present significant challenges in combining API calls based on user intent.Existing methods rely on named entity recognition (NER) and knowledge graphs, but struggle to generate more complex control flow structures, such as conditionals and loops.We propose a novel framework that leverages the success of large language models (LLMs) in code generation to integrate APIs based on natural language input. Our approach involves fine-tuning an LLM using automatically generated API flows derived from OpenAPI specifications.We further evaluate the effectiveness of enforcing the syntax and schema adherence through constrained decoding.To enable systematic comparison, we introduce targeted test suites to assess the generalization capabilities of these approaches and their ability to retain structured knowledge.Our findings show that LLMs fine-tuned on OpenAPI specifications can (a) learn structural API constraints implicitly during training, and (b) achieve significant improvements in both in-distribution and out-of-distribution performance over NER and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG)-based approaches."}
{"Title": "OMG-QA: Building Open-Domain Multi-Modal Generative Question Answering Systems", "Abstract": "We introduce OMG-QA, a new resource for question answering that is designed to evaluate the effectiveness of question answering systems that perform retrieval augmented generation (RAG) in scenarios that demand reasoning on multi-modal, multi-document contexts. These systems, given a user query, must retrieve relevant contexts from the web, which may include non-textual information, and then reason and synthesize these contents to generate a detailed, coherent answer. Unlike existing open-domain QA datasets, OMG-QA requires systems to navigate and integrate diverse modalities and a broad pool of information sources, making it uniquely challenging. We conduct a thorough evaluation and analysis of a diverse set of QA systems, featuring various retrieval frameworks, document retrievers, document indexing approaches, evidence retrieval methods, and LLMs tasked with both information retrieval and generation. Our findings reveal significant limitations in existing approaches using RAG or LLM agents to address open questions that require long-form answers supported by multi-modal evidence. We believe that OMG-QA will be a valuable resource for developing QA systems that are better equipped to handle open-domain, multi-modal information-seeking tasks."}
{"Title": "Survival of the Safest: Towards Secure Prompt Optimization through Interleaved Multi-Objective Evolution", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities; however, the optimization of their prompts has historically prioritized performance metrics at the expense of crucial safety and security considerations. To overcome this shortcoming, we introduce {``}Survival of the Safest{''} (), an innovative multi-objective prompt optimization framework that enhances both performance and security in LLMs simultaneously. utilizes an interleaved multi-objective evolution strategy, integrating semantic, feedback, and crossover mutations to effectively traverse the prompt landscape. Differing from the computationally demanding Pareto front methods, provides a scalable solution that expedites optimization in complex, high-dimensional discrete search spaces while keeping computational demands low. Our approach accommodates flexible weighting of objectives and generates a pool of optimized candidates, empowering users to select prompts that optimally meet their specific performance and security needs. Experimental evaluations across diverse benchmark datasets affirm {`}s efficacy in delivering high performance and notably enhancing safety and security compared to single-objective methods. This advancement marks a significant stride towards the deployment of LLM systems that are both high-performing and secure across varied industrial applications"}
{"Title": "Fine-Tuning Large Language Models for Stock Return Prediction Using Newsflow", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) and their fine-tuning techniques have demonstrated superior performance in various language understanding and generation tasks.This paper explores fine-tuning LLMs for predicting stock returns with financial newsflow.Return prediction is fundamental for subsequent tasks like portfolio construction and optimization in quantitative investing. We formulate the model to include a text representation and forecasting modules. We propose to compare the encoder-only and decoder-only LLMs, considering they generate text representations in distinct ways.The impact of these different representations on return forecasting remains an open question.Meanwhile, we compare two simple methods of integrating LLMs{'} token-level representations into the forecasting module.The experiments on real investment universes reveal that:(1) aggregated representations from LLMs{'} token-level embeddings generally produce return predictions that enhance the performance of long-only and long-short portfolios;(2) in the relatively large investment universe, the decoder LLMs-based prediction model leads to stronger portfolios, whereas in the small universes, there are no consistent winners;(3) return predictions derived from LLMs{'} text representations are a strong signal for portfolio construction, outperforming conventional sentiment scores.These findings shed light on developing suitable LLM fine-tuning methods for return prediction-based portfolio construction."}
{"Title": "AmazonQAC: A Large-Scale, Naturalistic Query Autocomplete Dataset", "Abstract": "Query Autocomplete (QAC) is a critical feature in modern search engines, facilitating user interaction by predicting search queries based on input prefixes. Despite its widespread adoption, the absence of large-scale, realistic datasets has hindered advancements in QAC system development. This paper addresses this gap by introducing AmazonQAC, a new QAC dataset sourced from Amazon Search logs, comprising 395M samples. The dataset includes actual sequences of user-typed prefixes leading to final search terms, as well as session IDs and timestamps that support modeling the context-dependent aspects of QAC. We assess Prefix Trees, semantic retrieval, and Large Language Models (LLMs) with and without finetuning. We find that finetuned LLMs perform best, particularly when incorporating contextual information. However, even our best system achieves only half of what we calculate is theoretically possible on our test data, which implies QAC is a challenging problem that is far from solved with existing systems. This contribution aims to stimulate further research on QAC systems to better serve user needs in diverse environments. We open-source this data on Hugging Face at https://huggingface.co/datasets/amazon/AmazonQAC."}
{"Title": "Language, OCR, Form Independent (LOFI) pipeline for Industrial Document Information Extraction", "Abstract": "This paper presents LOFI (Language, OCR, Form Independent), a pipeline for Document Information Extraction (DIE) in Low-Resource Language (LRL) business documents. LOFI pipeline solves language, Optical Character Recognition (OCR), and form dependencies through flexible model architecture, a token-level box split algorithm, and the SPADE decoder. Experiments on Korean and Japanese documents demonstrate high performance in Semantic Entity Recognition (SER) task without additional pre-training. The pipeline{'}s effectiveness is validated through real-world applications in insurance and tax-free declaration services, advancing DIE capabilities for diverse languages and document types in industrial settings."}
{"Title": "The State of the Art of Large Language Models on Chartered Financial Analyst Exams", "Abstract": "The Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) program is one of the most widely recognized financial certifications globally. In this work, we test a variety of state-of-the-art large language models (LLMs) on mock CFA exams to provide an overview of their financial analysis capabilities using the same evaluation standards applied for human professionals. We benchmark five leading proprietary models and eight open-source models on all three levels of the CFA through challenging multiple-choice and essay questions. We find that flagship proprietary models perform relatively well and can solidly pass levels I and II exams, but fail at level III due to essay questions. Open-source models generally fall short of estimated passing scores, but still show strong performance considering their size, cost, and availability advantages. We also find that using textbook data helps bridge the gap between open-source and proprietary models to a certain extent, despite reduced gains in CFA levels II and III. By understanding the current financial analysis abilities of LLMs, we aim to guide practitioners on which models are best suited for enhancing automation in the financial industry."}
{"Title": "Value Alignment from Unstructured Text", "Abstract": "Aligning large language models (LLMs) to value systems has emerged as a significant area of research within the fields of AI and NLP. Currently, this alignment process relies on the availability of high-quality supervised and preference data, which can be both time-consuming and expensive to curate or annotate. In this paper, we introduce a systematic end-to-end methodology for aligning LLMs to the implicit and explicit values represented in unstructured text data. Our proposed approach leverages the use of scalable synthetic data generation techniques to effectively align the model to the values present in the unstructured data. Through two distinct use-cases, we demonstrate the efficiency of our methodology on the Mistral-7B-Instruct model. Our approach credibly aligns LLMs to the values embedded within documents, and shows improved performance against other approaches, as quantified through the use of automatic metrics and win rates."}
{"Title": "LARA: Linguistic-Adaptive Retrieval-Augmentation for Multi-Turn Intent Classification", "Abstract": "Multi-turn intent classification is notably challenging due to the complexity and evolving nature of conversational contexts. This paper introduces LARA, a Linguistic-Adaptive Retrieval-Augmentation framework to enhance accuracy in multi-turn classification tasks across six languages, accommodating numerous intents in chatbot interactions. LARA combines a fine-tuned smaller model with a retrieval-augmented mechanism, integrated within the architecture of LLMs. The integration allows LARA to dynamically utilize past dialogues and relevant intents, thereby improving the understanding of the context. Furthermore, our adaptive retrieval techniques bolster the cross-lingual capabilities of LLMs without extensive retraining and fine-tuning. Comprehensive experiments demonstrate that LARA achieves state-of-the-art performance on multi-turn intent classification tasks, enhancing the average accuracy by 3.67{\\%} from state-of-the-art single-turn intent classifiers."}
{"Title": "Generating Vehicular Icon Descriptions and Indications Using Large Vision-Language Models", "Abstract": "To enhance a question-answering system for automotive drivers, we tackle the problem of automatic generation of icon image descriptions. The descriptions can match the driver{'}s query about the icon appearing on the dashboard and tell the driver what is happening so that they may take an appropriate action. We use three state-of-the-art large vision-language models to generate both visual and functional descriptions based on the icon image and its context information in the car manual. Both zero-shot and few-shot prompts are used. We create a dataset containing over 400 icons with their ground-truth descriptions and use it to evaluate model-generated descriptions across several performance metrics. Our evaluation shows that two of these models (GPT-4o and Claude 3.5) performed well on this task, while the third model (LLaVA-NEXT) performs poorly."}
{"Title": "Athena: Safe Autonomous Agents with Verbal Contrastive Learning", "Abstract": "Due to emergent capabilities, large language models (LLMs) have been utilized as language-based agents to perform a variety of tasks and make decisions with an increasing degree of autonomy. These autonomous agents can understand high-level instructions, interact with their environments, and execute complex tasks using a selection of tools available to them. As the capabilities of the agents expand, ensuring their safety and trustworthiness becomes more imperative. In this study, we introduce the Athena framework which leverages the concept of verbal contrastive learning where past safe and unsafe trajectories are used as in-context (contrastive) examples to guide the agent towards safety while fulfilling a given task. The framework also incorporates a critiquing mechanism to guide the agent to prevent risky actions at every step. Furthermore, due to the lack of existing benchmarks on the safety reasoning ability of LLM-based agents, we curate a set of 80 toolkits across 8 categories with 180 scenarios to provide a safety evaluation benchmark. Our experimental evaluation, with both closed- and open-source LLMs, indicates verbal contrastive learning and interaction-level critiquing improve the safety rate significantly."}
{"Title": "Granite-Function Calling Model: Introducing Function Calling Abilities via Multi-task Learning of Granular Tasks", "Abstract": "An emergent research trend explores the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) as the backbone of agentic systems (e.g., SWE-Bench, Agent-Bench). To fulfill LLMs{'} potential as autonomous agents, they must be able to identify, call, and interact with a variety of external tools and application program interfaces (APIs). This capability of LLMs, commonly termed function calling, leads to a myriad of advantages such as access to current and domain-specific information in databases and the outsourcing of tasks that can be reliably performed by tools. In this work, we introduce Granite-20B-FunctionCalling, a model trained using a multi-task training approach on seven fundamental tasks encompassed in function calling. Our comprehensive evaluation on multiple out-of-domain datasets, which compares Granite-20B-FunctionCalling to more than 15 other best proprietary and open models, shows that Granite-20B-FunctionCalling has better generalizability on multiple tasks across seven different evaluation benchmarks. Moreover, Granite-20B-FunctionCalling shows the best performance among all open models and ranks among the top on the Berkeley Function Calling Leaderboard (BFCL)."}
{"Title": "Query-OPT: Optimizing Inference of Large Language Models via Multi-Query Instructions in Meeting Summarization", "Abstract": "This work focuses on the task of query-based meeting summarization in which the summary of a context (meeting transcript) is generated in response to a specific query. When using Large Language Models (LLMs) for this task, a new call to the LLM inference endpoint/API is required for each new query even if the context stays the same. However, repeated calls to the LLM inference endpoints would significantly increase the costs of using them in production, making LLMs impractical for many real-world use cases. To address this problem, in this paper, we investigate whether combining the queries for the same input context in a single prompt to minimize repeated calls can be successfully used in meeting summarization. In this regard, we conduct extensive experiments by comparing the performance of various popular LLMs: GPT-4, Gemini, Claude-3, LLaMA2, Mistral, Phi-3, and Qwen-2 in single-query and multi-query settings. We observe that the capability to reliably generate the response in the expected format is usually limited to closedsource LLMs, with most open-source LLMs lagging behind (except Mistral). We conclude that multi-query prompting could be useful to optimize the inference costs by significantly reducing calls to the inference endpoints/APIs for the task of meeting summarization."}
{"Title": "DiAL : Diversity Aware Listwise Ranking for Query Auto-Complete", "Abstract": "Query Auto-Complete (QAC) is an essential search feature that suggests users with a list of potential search keyword completions as they type, enabling them to complete their queries faster. While the QAC systems in eCommerce stores generally use the Learning to Rank (LTR) approach optimized based on customer feedback, it struggles to provide diverse suggestions, leading to repetitive queries and limited navigational suggestions related to product categories, attributes, and brands. This paper proposes a novel DiAL framework that explicitly optimizes for diversity alongside customer feedback signals. It achieves this by leveraging a smooth approximation of the diversity-based metric ($\\alpha$NDCG) as a listwise loss function and modifying it to balance relevance and diversity. The proposed approach yielded an improvement of 8.5{\\%} in mean reciprocal rank (MRR) and 22.8{\\%} in $\\alpha$NDCG compared to the pairwise ranking approach on an eCommerce dataset, while meeting the ultra-low latency constraints of QAC systems. In an online experiment, the diversity-aware listwise QAC model resulted in a 0.48{\\%} lift in revenue. Furthermore, we replicated the proposed approach on a publicly available search log, demonstrating improvements in both diversity and relevance of the suggested queries."}
{"Title": "Systematic Evaluation of Long-Context LLMs on Financial Concepts", "Abstract": "Long-context large language models (LC LLMs) promise to increase reliability of LLMs in real-world tasks requiring processing and understanding of long input documents. However, this ability of LC LLMs to reliably utilize their growing context windows remains under investigation. In this work, we evaluate the performance of state-of-the-art GPT-4 suite of LC LLMs in solving a series of progressively challenging tasks, as a function of factors such as context length, task difficulty, and position of key information by creating a real world financial news dataset. Our findings indicate that LC LLMs exhibit brittleness at longer context lengths even for simple tasks, with performance deteriorating sharply as task complexity increases. At longer context lengths, these state-of-the-art models experience catastrophic failures in instruction following resulting in degenerate outputs. Our prompt ablations also reveal unfortunate continued sensitivity to both the placement of the task instruction in the context window as well as minor markdown formatting. Finally, we advocate for more rigorous evaluation of LC LLMs by employing holistic metrics such as F1 (rather than recall) and reporting confidence intervals, thereby ensuring robust and conclusive findings."}
{"Title": "ConvKGYarn: Spinning Configurable and Scalable Conversational Knowledge Graph QA Datasets with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The rapid evolution of Large Language Models (LLMs) and conversational assistants necessitates dynamic, scalable, and configurable conversational datasets for training and evaluation.These datasets must accommodate diverse user interaction modes, including text and voice, each presenting unique modeling challenges. Knowledge Graphs (KGs), with their structured and evolving nature, offer an ideal foundation for current and precise knowledge.Although human-curated KG-based conversational datasets exist, they struggle to keep pace with the rapidly changing user information needs.We present ConvKGYarn, a scalable method for generating up-to-date and configurable conversational KGQA datasets. Qualitative psychometric analyses demonstrate ConvKGYarn{'}s effectiveness in producing high-quality data comparable to popular conversational KGQA datasets across various metrics.ConvKGYarn excels in adhering to human interaction configurations and operating at a significantly larger scale.We showcase ConvKGYarn{'}s utility by testing LLMs on diverse conversations {---} exploring model behavior on conversational KGQA sets with different configurations grounded in the same KG fact set.Our results highlight the ability of ConvKGYarn to improve KGQA foundations and evaluate parametric knowledge of LLMs, thus offering a robust solution to the constantly evolving landscape of conversational assistants."}
{"Title": "Knowledge-augmented Financial Market Analysis and Report Generation", "Abstract": "Crafting a convincing financial market analysis report necessitates a wealth of market information and the expertise of financial analysts, posing a highly challenging task. While large language models (LLMs) have enabled the automated generation of financial market analysis text, they still face issues such as hallucinations, errors in financial knowledge, and insufficient capability to reason about complex financial problems, which limits the quality of the generation. To tackle these shortcomings, we propose a novel task and a retrieval-augmented framework grounded in a financial knowledge graph (FKG). The proposed framework is compatible with commonly used instruction-tuning methods. Experiments demonstrate that our framework, coupled with a small-scale language model fine-tuned with instructions, can significantly enhance the logical consistency and quality of the generated analysis texts, outperforming both large-scale language models and other retrieval-augmented baselines."}
{"Title": "Let Me Speak Freely? A Study On The Impact Of Format Restrictions On Large Language Model Performance.", "Abstract": "Structured generation, the process of producing content in standardized formats like JSON and XML, is widely utilized in real-world applications to extract key output information from large language models (LLMs).This study investigates whether such constraints on generation space impact LLMs{'} abilities, including reasoning and domain knowledge comprehension. Specifically, we evaluate LLMs{'} performance when restricted to adhere to structured formats versus generating free-form responses across various common tasks. Surprisingly, we observe a significant decline in LLMs{'} reasoning abilities under format restrictions. Furthermore, we find that stricter format constraints generally lead to greater performance degradation in reasoning tasks."}
{"Title": "ASTRA: Automatic Schema Matching using Machine Translation", "Abstract": "Many eCommerce platforms source product information from millions of sellers and manufactures, each having their own proprietary schemas, and employ schema matching solutions to structure it to enable informative shopping experiences. Meanwhile, state-of-the-art machine translation techniques have demonstrated great success in building context-aware representations that generalize well to new languages with minimal training data. In this work, we propose modeling the schema matching problem as a neural machine translation task: given product context and an attribute-value pair from a source schema, the model predicts the corresponding attribute, if available, in the target schema. We utilize open-source seq2seq models, such as mT5 and mBART, fine-tuned on product attribute mappings to build a scalable schema matching framework. We demonstrate that our proposed approach achieves a significant performance boost (15{\\%} precision and 7{\\%} recall uplift) compared to the baseline system and can support new attributes with precision $\\ge 95\\%$ using only five labeled samples per attribute."}
{"Title": "Neural Search Space in Gboard Decoder", "Abstract": "Gboard Decoder produces suggestions by looking for paths that best match input touch points on the context aware search space, which is backed by the language Finite State Transducers (FST). The language FST is currently an N-gram language model (LM). However, N-gram LMs, limited in context length, are known to have sparsity problem under device model size constraint. In this paper, we propose \\textbf{Neural Search Space} which substitutes the N-gram LM with a Neural Network LM (NN-LM) and dynamically constructs the search space during decoding. Specifically, we integrate the long range context awareness of NN-LM into the search space by converting its outputs given context, into the language FST at runtime. This involves language FST structure redesign, pruning strategies tuning, and data structure optimizations. Online experiments demonstrate improved quality results, reducing Words Modified Ratio by [0.26{\\%}, 1.19{\\%}] on various locales with acceptable latency increases. This work opens new avenues for further improving keyboard decoding quality by enhancing neural LM more directly."}
{"Title": "Prompt Leakage effect and mitigation strategies for multi-turn LLM Applications", "Abstract": "Prompt leakage poses a compelling security and privacy threat in LLM applications. Leakage of system prompts may compromise intellectual property, and act as adversarial reconnaissance for an attacker. A systematic evaluation of prompt leakage threats and mitigation strategies is lacking, especially for multi-turn LLM interactions. In this paper, we systematically investigate LLM vulnerabilities against prompt leakage for 10 closed- and open-source LLMs, across four domains. We design a unique threat model which leverages the LLM sycophancy effect and elevates the average attack success rate (ASR) from 17.7{\\%} to 86.2{\\%} in a multi-turn setting. Our standardized setup further allows dissecting leakage of specific prompt contents such as task instructions and knowledge documents. We measure the mitigation effect of 7 black-box defense strategies, along with finetuning an open-source model to defend against leakage attempts. We present different combination of defenses against our threat model, including a cost analysis. Our study highlights key takeaways for building secure LLM applications and provides directions for research in multi-turn LLM interactions."}
{"Title": "Sequential LLM Framework for Fashion Recommendation", "Abstract": "The fashion industry is one of the leading domains in the global e-commerce sector, prompting major online retailers to employ recommendation systems for product suggestions and customer convenience. While recommendation systems have been widely studied, most are designed for general e-commerce problems and struggle with the unique challenges of the fashion domain. To address these issues, we propose a sequential fashion recommendation framework that leverages a pre-trained large language model (LLM) enhanced with recommendation-specific prompts. Our framework employs parameter-efficient fine-tuning with extensive fashion data and introduces a novel mix-up-based retrieval technique for translating text into relevant product suggestions. Extensive experiments show our proposed framework significantly enhances fashion recommendation performance."}
{"Title": "Visual Editing with LLM-based Tool Chaining: An Efficient Distillation Approach for Real-Time Applications", "Abstract": "We present a practical distillation approach to fine-tune LLMs for invoking tools in real-time applications. We focus on visual editing tasks; specifically, we modify images and videos by interpreting user stylistic requests, specified in natural language ({``}golden hour{''}), using an LLM to select the appropriate tools and their parameters to achieve the desired visual effect.We found that proprietary LLMs such as GPT-3.5-Turbo show potential in this task, but their high cost and latency make them unsuitable for real-time applications.In our approach, we fine-tune a (smaller) student LLM with guidance from a (larger) teacher LLM and behavioral signals.We introduce offline metrics to evaluate student LLMs. Both online and offline experiments show that our student models manage to match the performance of our teacher model (GPT-3.5-Turbo), significantly reducing costs and latency.Lastly, we show that fine-tuning was improved by 25{\\%} in low-data regimes using augmentation."}
{"Title": "Provenance: A Light-weight Fact-checker for Retrieval Augmented LLM Generation Output", "Abstract": "We present a light-weight approach for detecting nonfactual outputs from retrieval-augemented generation (RAG). Given a context and putative output, we compute a factuality score that can be thresholded to yield a binary decision to check the results of LLM-based question-answering, summarization, or other systems. Unlike factuality checkers that themselves rely on LLMs, we use compact, open-source natural language inference (NLI) models that yield a freely accessible solution with low latency and low cost at run-time, and no need for LLM fine-tuning. The approach also enables downstream mitigation and correction of hallucinations, by tracing them back to specific context chunks. Our experiments show high ROC-AUC across a wide range of relevant open source datasets, indicating the effectiveness of our method for fact-checking RAG output."}
{"Title": "AnyMAL: An Efficient and Scalable Any-Modality Augmented Language Model", "Abstract": "We present Any-Modality Augmented Language Model (AnyMAL), a unified model that reasons over diverse input modality signals (i.e. text, image, video, audio, IMU motion sensor), and generates textual responses. AnyMAL inherits the powerful text-based reasoning abilities of the state-of-the-art LLMs including Llama-3 (70B), and converts modality-specific signals to the joint textual space through a pre-trained aligner module.In this paper, we provide details on the optimizations implemented to efficiently scale the training pipeline, and present a comprehensive recipe for model and training configurations. We conduct comprehensive empirical analysis comprising both human and automatic evaluations, and demonstrate state-of-the-art performance on various multimodal tasks compared to industry-leading models {--} albeit with a relatively small number of trainable parameters."}
{"Title": "SLM as Guardian: Pioneering AI Safety with Small Language Model", "Abstract": "Most prior safety research of large language models (LLMs) has focused on enhancing the alignment of LLMs to better suit the safety requirements of their use cases. However, internalizing such safeguard features into larger models brought challenges of higher training cost and unintended degradation of helpfulness. In this paper, we leverage a smaller LLM for both harmful query detection and safeguard response generation. We introduce our safety requirements and the taxonomy of harmfulness categories, and then propose a multi-task learning mechanism fusing the two tasks into a single model. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, providing on par or surpassing harmful query detection and safeguard response performance compared to the publicly available LLMs."}
{"Title": "Hyper-QKSG: Framework for Automating Query Generation and Knowledge-Snippet Extraction from Tables and Lists", "Abstract": "These days, there is an increasing necessity to provide a user with a short knowledge-snippet for a query in commercial information retrieval services such as the featured snippet of Google. In this paper, we focus on how to automatically extract the candidates of query-knowledge snippet pairs from structured HTML documents by using a new Language Model (HTML-PLM). In particular, the proposed system is powerful on extracting them from Tables and Lists, and provides a new framework for automate query generation and knowledge-snippet extraction based on a QA-pair filtering procedure including the snippet refinement and verification processes, which enhance the quality of generated query-knowledge snippet pairs. As a result, 53.8{\\%} of the generated knowledge-snippets includes complex HTML structures such as tables and lists in our experiments of a real-world environments, and 66.5{\\%} of the knowledge-snippets are evaluated as valid."}
{"Title": "Patentformer: A Novel Method to Automate the Generation of Patent Applications", "Abstract": "In recent years, Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive performances across various NLP tasks. However, their potential for automating the task of writing patent documents remains relatively unexplored. To address this gap, in this work, we propose a novel method, Patentformer, for generating patent specification by fine-tuning the generative models with diverse sources of information, e.g., patent claims, drawing text, and brief descriptions of the drawings. To enhance the generative models{'} comprehension of the complex task of writing patent specification, we introduce a new task, claim+drawing-to-specification, and release a new dataset. We evaluate our proposed method on thousands of patents from the USPTO and show that our method can generate human-like patent specification in legal writing style. Human evaluations by four patent experts further affirm that our proposed method has the potential to generate correct specification, and the quality of generated specification may sometimes be better than the actual specification."}
{"Title": "MARCO: Multi-Agent Real-time Chat Orchestration", "Abstract": "Large language model advancements have enabled the development of multi-agent frameworks to tackle complex, real-world problems such as to automate workflows that require interactions with diverse tools, reasoning, and human collaboration. We present MARCO, a Multi-Agent Real-time Chat Orchestration framework for automating workflows using LLMs. MARCO addresses key challenges in utilizing LLMs for complex, multi-step task execution in a production environment. It incorporates robust guardrails to steer LLM behavior, validate outputs, and recover from errors that stem from inconsistent output formatting, function and parameter hallucination, and lack of domain knowledge. Through extensive experiments we demonstrate MARCO{'}s superior performance with 94.48{\\%} and 92.74{\\%} accuracy on task execution for Digital Restaurant Service Platform conversations and Retail conversations datasets respectively along with 44.91{\\%} improved latency and 33.71{\\%} cost reduction in a production setting. We also report effects of guardrails in performance gain along with comparisons of various LLM models, both open-source and proprietary. The modular and generic design of MARCO allows it to be adapted for automating workflows across domains and to execute complex tasks through multi-turn interactions."}
{"Title": "mGTE: Generalized Long-Context Text Representation and Reranking Models for Multilingual Text Retrieval", "Abstract": "We present systematic efforts in building long-context multilingual text representation model (TRM) and reranker from scratch for text retrieval. We first introduce a text encoder (base size) enhanced with RoPE and unpadding, pre-trained in a native 8192-token context (longer than 512 of previous multilingual encoders). Then we construct a hybrid TRM and a cross-encoder reranker by contrastive learning. Evaluations show that our text encoder outperforms the same-sized previous state-of-the-art XLM-R. Meanwhile, our TRM and reranker match the performance of large-sized state-of-the-art BGE-M3 models and achieve better results on long-context retrieval benchmarks. Further analysis demonstrate that our proposed models exhibit higher efficiency during both training and inference. We believe their efficiency and effectiveness could benefit various researches and industrial applications."}
{"Title": "ItiNera: Integrating Spatial Optimization with Large Language Models for Open-domain Urban Itinerary Planning", "Abstract": "Citywalk, a recently popular form of urban travel, requires genuine personalization and understanding of fine-grained requests compared to traditional itinerary planning. In this paper, we introduce the novel task of Open-domain Urban Itinerary Planning (OUIP), which generates personalized urban itineraries from user requests in natural language. We then present ItiNera, an OUIP system that integrates spatial optimization with large language models to provide customized urban itineraries based on user needs. This involves decomposing user requests, selecting candidate points of interest (POIs), ordering the POIs based on cluster-aware spatial optimization, and generating the itinerary. Experiments on real-world datasets and the performance of the deployed system demonstrate our system{'}s capacity to deliver personalized and spatially coherent itineraries compared to current solutions. Source codes of ItiNera are available at https://github.com/YihongT/ITINERA."}
{"Title": "RESTful-Llama: Connecting User Queries to RESTful APIs", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have showcased exceptional performance in zero-shot learning and reasoning tasks. However, integrating these models with external tools - a crucial need for real-world applications - remains a significant challenge. We propose RESTful-Llama, a novel framework designed to enable Llama 3.1 to transform natural language instructions into effective RESTful API calls. To enhance the fine-tuning process, we introduce DOC{\\_}Mine, a method to generate fine-tuning datasets from public API documentation. RESTful-Llama distinguishes itself by enabling open-source LLMs to efficiently interact with and adapt to any REST API system. Experiments demonstrate a 31.9{\\%} improvement in robustness and a 2.33x increase in efficiency compared to existing methods."}
{"Title": "A Cost-Efficient Modular Sieve for Extracting Product Information from Company Websites", "Abstract": "Extracting product information is crucial for informed business decisions and strategic planning across multiple industries. However, recent methods relying only on large language models (LLMs) are resource-intensive and computationally prohibitive due to website structure differences and numerous non-product pages. To address these challenges, we propose a novel modular method that leverages low-cost classification models to filter out company web pages, significantly reducing computational costs. Our approach consists of three modules: web page crawling, product page classification using efficient machine learning models, and product information extraction using LLMs on classified product pages. We evaluate our method on a new dataset of about 7000 product and non-product web pages, achieving a 6-point improvement in F1-score, 95{\\%} reduction in computational time, and 87.5{\\%} reduction in cost compared to end-to-end LLMs. Our research demonstrates the effectiveness of our proposed low-cost classification module to identify web pages containing product information, making product information extraction more effective and cost-efficient."}
{"Title": "CharacterGLM: Customizing Social Characters with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Character-based dialogue (CharacterDial) has become essential in the industry (e.g., Character.AI), enabling users to freely customize social characters for social interactions. However, the generalizability and adaptability across various conversational scenarios inherent in customizing social characters still lack public industrial solutions. To address these challenges, by dissecting well-rounded social characters composed of both inherent social profiles and external social behaviors, we manually collect a large-scale Chinese corpus featuring characters with diverse categories and behaviors, and develop CharacterGLM models alongside well-designed refinement methods. Extensive experiments show that CharacterGLM outperforms most popular open- and closed-source LLMs and performs comparably to GPT-4. We will release our data and models for local development and deployment."}
{"Title": "RAC: Retrieval-augmented Conversation Dataset for Open-domain Question Answering in Conversational Settings", "Abstract": "In recent years, significant advancements in conversational question and answering (CQA) have been driven by the exponential growth of large language models and the integration of retrieval mechanisms that leverage external knowledge to generate accurate and contextually relevant responses. Consequently, the fields of conversational search and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) have obtained substantial attention for their capacity to address two key challenges: query rewriting within conversational histories for better retrieval performance and generating responses by employing retrieved knowledge. However, both fields are often independently studied, and comprehensive study on entire systems remains underexplored. In this work, we present a novel retrieval-augmented conversation (RAC) dataset and develop a baseline system comprising query rewriting, retrieval, reranking, and response generation stages. Experimental results demonstrate the competitiveness of the system and extensive analyses are conducted to apprehend the impact of retrieval results to response generation."}
{"Title": "Improving Retrieval in Sponsored Search by Leveraging Query Context Signals", "Abstract": "Accurately retrieving relevant bid keywords for user queries is critical in Sponsored Search but remains challenging, particularly for short, ambiguous queries. Existing dense and generative retrieval models often fail to capture the nuanced user intent in these cases. To address this, we propose an approach to enhance query understanding by augmenting queries with rich contextual signals derived from web search results and large language models, stored in an online cache. Specifically, we use web search titles and snippets to ground queries in real-world information, and utilize GPT-4 to generate query rewrites and explanations that clarify user intent. These signals are efficiently integrated through a Fusion-in-Decoder based Unity architecture, enabling both dense and generative retrieval with serving costs on par with traditional context-free models. To address scenarios where context is unavailable in the cache, we introduce context glancing, a curriculum learning strategy that improves model robustness and performance even without contextual signals during inference. Extensive offline experiments demonstrate that our context-aware approach substantially outperforms context-free models. Furthermore, online A/B testing on a prominent search engine across 160+ countries shows significant improvements in user engagement and revenue."}
{"Title": "FuxiTranyu: A Multilingual Large Language Model Trained with Balanced Data", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated prowess in a wide range of tasks. However, many LLMs exhibit significant performance discrepancies between high- and low-resource languages. To mitigate this challenge, we present \\textbf{FuxiTranyu}, an open-source multilingual LLM, which is designed to satisfy the need of the research community for balanced and high-performing multilingual capabilities. The base model, FuxiTranyu-8B, features 8 billion parameters and is trained from scratch on meticulously balanced multilingual data that contains 600 billion tokens covering 43 natural languages and 16 programming languages. We also develop two instruction-tuned models: FuxiTranyu-8B-SFT which is fine-tuned on a diverse multilingual instruction dataset, and FuxiTranyu-8B-DPO which is further refined with DPO on a preference dataset for enhanced alignment ability. Extensive experiments on a wide range of multilingual benchmarks demonstrate the competitive performance of FuxiTranyu against existing multilingual LLMs, e.g., BLOOM-7B, PolyLM-13B, and Mistral-7B-Instruct. Both neuron and representation interpretability analyses reveal that FuxiTranyu achieves consistent multilingual representations across languages. To promote further research into multilingual LLMs, we release both the base and instruction-tuned FuxiTranyu models together with 58 pre-training checkpoints at HuggingFace and Github."}
{"Title": "QUIS: Question-guided Insights Generation for Automated Exploratory Data Analysis", "Abstract": "Discovering meaningful insights from a large dataset, known as Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA), is a challenging task that requires thorough exploration and analysis of the data. Automated Data Exploration (ADE) systems use goal-oriented methods with Large Language Models and Reinforcement Learning towards full automation. However, these methods require human involvement to anticipate goals that may limit insight extraction, while fully automated systems demand significant computational resources and retraining for new datasets. We introduce QUIS, a fully automated EDA system that operates in two stages: insight generation (ISGen) driven by question generation (QUGen). The QUGen module generates questions in iterations, refining them from previous iterations to enhance coverage without human intervention or manually curated examples. The ISGen module analyzes data to produce multiple relevant insights in response to each question, requiring no prior training and enabling QUIS to adapt to new datasets."}
{"Title": "PEARL: Preference Extraction with Exemplar Augmentation and Retrieval with LLM Agents", "Abstract": "Identifying preferences of customers in their shopping journey is a pivotal aspect in providing product recommendations. The task becomes increasingly challenging when there is a multi-turn conversation between the user and a shopping assistant chatbot. In this paper, we tackle a novel and complex problem of identifying customer preferences in the form of key-value filters on an e-commerce website in a multi-turn conversational setting. Existing systems specialize in extracting customer preferences from standalone customer queries which makes them unsuitable to multi-turn setup. We propose PEARL (Preference Extraction with ICL Augmentation and Retrieval with LLM Agents) that leverages collaborative LLM agents, generates in-context learning exemplars and dynamically retrieves relevant exemplars during inference time to extract customer preferences as a combination of key-value filters. Our experiments on proprietary and public datasets show that PEARL not only improves performance on exact match by {\\textasciitilde}10{\\%} compared to competitive LLM-based baselines but additionally improves inference latency by {\\textasciitilde}110{\\%}."}
{"Title": "RAG-HAT: A Hallucination-Aware Tuning Pipeline for LLM in Retrieval-Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has emerged as a significant advancement in the field of large language models (LLMs). By integrating up-to-date information not available during their initial training, RAG greatly enhances the practical utility of LLMs in real-world applications. However, even with RAG, LLMs can still produce inaccurate outputs, such as distorting or misinterpreting source content, posing risks in high-trust scenarios. To address these issues, we introduce a novel approach called Hallucination Aware Tuning (HAT). This method involves training hallucination detection models that generate detection labels and provide detailed descriptions of the detected hallucinations. Utilizing these detection results{---}particularly the hallucination descriptions{---}GPT-4 Turbo is employed to correct any detected hallucinations. The corrected outputs, free of hallucinations, along with the original versions, are used to create a preference dataset for Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) training. The fine-tuning through DPO leads to LLMs that exhibit a reduced rate of hallucinations and deliver improved answer quality."}
{"Title": "Intent Detection in the Age of LLMs", "Abstract": "Intent detection is a critical component of task-oriented dialogue systems (TODS) which enables the identification of suitable actions to address user utterances at each dialog turn. Traditional approaches relied on computationally efficient supervised sentence transformer encoder models, which require substantial training data and struggle with out-of-scope (OOS) detection. The emergence of generative large language models (LLMs) with intrinsic world knowledge presents new opportunities to address these challenges.In this work, we adapt SOTA LLMs using adaptive in-context learning and chain-of-thought prompting for intent detection, and compare their performance with contrastively fine-tuned sentence transformer (SetFit) models to highlight prediction quality and latency tradeoff. We propose a hybrid system using uncertainty based routing strategy to combine the two approaches that along with negative data augmentation results in achieving the best of both worlds ( i.e. within 2{\\%} of native LLM accuracy with 50{\\%} less latency). To better understand LLM OOS detection capabilities, we perform controlled experiments revealing that this capability is significantly influenced by the scope of intent labels and the size of the label space. We also introduce a two-step approach utilizing internal LLM representations, demonstrating empirical gains in OOS detection accuracy and F1-score by {\\textgreater}5{\\%} for the Mistral-7B model."}
{"Title": "Aegis:An Advanced LLM-Based Multi-Agent for Intelligent Functional Safety Engineering", "Abstract": "Functional safety is a critical aspect of automotive engineering, encompassing all phases of a vehicle{'}s lifecycle, including design, development, production, operation, and decommissioning. This domain involves highly knowledge-intensive tasks. This paper introduces Aegis: An Advanced LLM-Based Multi-Agent for Intelligent Functional Safety Engineering. Aegis is specifically designed to support complex functional safety tasks within the automotive sector. It is tailored to perform Hazard Analysis and Risk Assessment (HARA), document Functional Safety Requirements (FSR), and plan test cases for Automatic Emergency Braking (AEB) systems. The most advanced version, Aegis-Max, leverages Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) and reflective mechanisms to enhance its capability in managing complex, knowledge-intensive tasks. Additionally, targeted prompt refinement by professional functional safety practitioners can significantly optimize Aegis{'}s performance in the functional safety domain. This paper demonstrates the potential of Aegis to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of functional safety processes in automotive engineering."}
{"Title": "Efficient Answer Retrieval System (EARS): Combining Local DB Search and Web Search for Generative QA", "Abstract": "In this work, we propose an efficient answer retrieval system **EARS**: a production-ready, factual question answering (QA) system that combines local knowledge base search with generative, context-based QA. To assess the quality of the generated content, we devise comprehensive metrics for both manual and automatic evaluation of the answers to questions. A distinctive feature of our system is the Ranker component, which ranks answer candidates based on their relevance. This feature enhances the effectiveness of local knowledge base retrieval by 23{\\%}. Another crucial aspect of our system is the LLM, which utilizes contextual information from a web search API to generate responses. This results in substantial 92.8{\\%} boost in the usefulness of voice-based responses. **EARS** is language-agnostic and can be applied to any data domain."}
{"Title": "GraphQL Query Generation: A Large Training and Benchmarking Dataset", "Abstract": "GraphQL is a powerful query language for APIs that allows clients to fetch precise data efficiently and flexibly, querying multiple resources with a single request. However, crafting complex GraphQL query operations can be challenging. Large Language Models (LLMs) offer an alternative by generating GraphQL queries from natural language, but they struggle due to limited exposure to publicly available GraphQL schemas, often resulting in invalid or suboptimal queries. Furthermore, no benchmark test data suite is available to reliably evaluate the performance of contemporary LLMs.To address this, we present a large-scale, cross-domain Text-to-GraphQL query operation dataset. The dataset includes 10,940 training triples spanning 185 cross-source data stores and 957 test triples over 14 data stores. Each triple consists of a GraphQL schema, GraphQL query operation, and corresponding natural language query. The dataset has been predominantly manually created, with natural language paraphrasing, and carefully validated, requiring approximately 1200 person-hours. In our evaluation, we tested 10 state-of-the-art LLMs using our test dataset. The best-performing model achieved an accuracy of only around 50{\\%} with one in-context few-shot example, underscoring the necessity for custom fine-tuning. To support further research and benchmarking, we are releasing the training and test datasets under the MIT License. The dataset is available at https://github.com/stepzen-dev/NL2GQL."}
{"Title": "Mixture of Diverse Size Experts", "Abstract": "The Sparsely-Activated Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) architecture has gained popularity for scaling large language models (LLMs) due to the sub-linearly increasing computational costs. Despite its success, most of the current structure designs face the challenge that the experts share the same size such that tokens have no chance to choose the experts with the most appropriate size to generate the next token. To migrate this defect, we propose Mixture of Diverse Size Experts (MoDSE), a new MoE architecture with designed layers where experts have different sizes. Analysis on difficult token generation tasks shows that experts with different sizes give better predictions, and the routing path of the experts tends to be stable after a period of training. The diversity of experts{'} size will lead to load unbalancing. To tackle this limitation, we introduce an expert-pair allocation strategy to distribute the workload evenly across the GPUs. Comprehensive evaluations across multiple benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of MoDSE, surpassing existing MoEs by adaptively assigning the parameter budget to experts while maintaining the same total parameter size and number of experts."}
{"Title": "Course-Correction: Safety Alignment Using Synthetic Preferences", "Abstract": "The risk of harmful contents generated by large language models (LLMs) becomes a critical concern. This paper systematically evaluates and enhances LLMs{'} capability to perform \\textit{course-correction}, , the model can steer away from generating harmful content autonomously. First, we introduce the C$^2$-Eval benchmark for quantitative assessment and analyze 10 popular LLMs, revealing varying proficiency of current safety-tuned LLMs in course-correction.To improve, we propose fine-tuning LLMs with preference learning, emphasizing the preference for timely course-correction. Using an automated pipeline, we create C$^2$-Syn, a synthetic C$^2$-Syn with 750K pairwise preferences, to teach models the concept of timely course-correction through data-driven learning.Experiments on Llama2-Chat 7B and Qwen2 7B show that our method effectively enhances course-correction skills without affecting general performance. Additionally, it effectively improves LLMs{'} safety, particularly in resisting jailbreak attacks."}
{"Title": "GOVERN: Gradient Orientation Vote Ensemble for Multi-Teacher Reinforced Distillation", "Abstract": "Pre-trained language models have become an integral component of question-answering systems, achieving remarkable performance. However, for practical deployment, it is crucial to perform knowledge distillation to maintain high performance while operating under computational constraints. In this paper, we address a key question: given the importance of unsupervised distillation for student model performance, how can knowledge from multiple teacher models be effectively ensemble during this stage without the guidance of labels? We propose a novel algorithm, GOVERN, to tackle this issue. GOVERN has demonstrated significant improvements in both offline and online experiments, enabling the student model to achieve results comparable to that of teacher ensembles. Our experiments show that GOVERN remarkably requires a mere 1{\\%} of the ensemble method{'}s inference budget to achieve 99.5{\\%} of performance. The proposed algorithm has been successfully deployed in a real-world commercial question-answering system, demonstrating its real-world applicability."}
{"Title": "PRISM: A New Lens for Improved Color Understanding", "Abstract": "While image-text pre-trained models, such as CLIP, have demonstrated impressive capabilities in learning robust text and image representations, a critical area for substantial improvement remains{---}precise color understanding. In this paper, we address this limitation by introducing PRISM, a simple yet highly effective method that extends CLIP{'}s capability to grasp the nuances of precise colors. PRISM seamlessly adapts to both recognized HTML colors and out-of-vocabulary RGB inputs through the utilization of our curated dataset of 100 image-text pairs, which can be effortlessly repurposed for fine-tuning with any desired color. Importantly, PRISM achieves these enhancements without compromising CLIP{'}s performance on established benchmarks. Furthermore, we introduce a novel evaluation framework, ColorLens, featuring both seen and unseen test sets that can be readily repurposed to assess a model{'}s precision in understanding precise colors. Our comprehensive evaluation and results demonstrate significant improvements over baseline models."}
{"Title": "Enhancing LLM Capabilities Beyond Scaling Up", "Abstract": "General-purpose large language models (LLMs) are progressively expanding both in scale and access to unpublic training data. This has led to notable progress in a variety of AI problems. Nevertheless, two questions exist: i) Is scaling up the sole avenue of extending the capabilities of LLMs? ii) Instead of developing general-purpose LLMs, how to endow LLMs with specific knowledge? This tutorial targets researchers and practitioners who are interested in capability extension of LLMs that go beyond scaling up. To this end, we will discuss several lines of research that follow that direction, including (i) the adaptation of LLMs to assimilate new information in situations where conflicts arise, (ii) the adaptation of LLMs to address target problems with inherent constraints, (iii) the customization of LLMs to align with user-specific instructions and preference, (iv) the defense against potential attacks and threads by malicious users, and (v) the collaboration with external models directly or through APIs. At last, we will conclude the tutorial by outlining directions for further investigation."}
{"Title": "Countering Hateful and Offensive Speech Online - Open Challenges", "Abstract": "In today{'}s digital age, hate speech and offensive speech online pose a significant challenge to maintaining respectful and inclusive online environments. This tutorial aims to provide attendees with a comprehensive understanding of the field by delving into essential dimensions such as multilingualism, counter-narrative generation, a hands-on session with one of the most popular APIs for detecting hate speech, fairness, and ethics in AI, and the use of recent advanced approaches. In addition, the tutorial aims to foster collaboration and inspire participants to create safer online spaces by detecting and mitigating hate speech."}
{"Title": "Language Agents: Foundations, Prospects, and Risks", "Abstract": "Language agents are autonomous agents, usually powered by large language models, that can follow language instructions to carry out diverse and complex tasks in real-world or simulated environments. It is one of the most heated discussion threads in AI and NLP at present with many proof-of-concept efforts, yet there lacks a systematic account of the conceptual definition, theoretical foundation, promising directions, and risks of language agents. This proposed tutorial aspires to fill this gap by providing a conceptual framework of language agents as well as giving a comprehensive discussion on important topic areas including tool augmentation, grounding, reasoning and planning, multi-agent systems, and rissk and societal impact. Language played a critical role in the evolution of biological intelligence, and now artificial intelligence may be following a similar evolutionary path. This is remarkable and concerning at the same time. We hope this tutorial will provide a timely framework to facilitate constructive discussion on this important emerging topic."}
{"Title": "Introductory Tutorial: Reasoning with Natural Language Explanations", "Abstract": "TODO"}
{"Title": "AI for Science in the Era of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The capabilities of AI in the realm of science span a wide spectrum, from the atomic level, where it solves partial differential equations for quantum systems, to the molecular level, predicting chemical or protein structures, and even extending to societal predictions like infectious disease outbreaks. Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs), exemplified by models like ChatGPT, have showcased significant prowess in tasks involving natural language, such as translating languages, constructing chatbots, and answering questions. When we consider scientific data, we notice a resemblance to natural language in terms of sequences {--} scientific literature and health records presented as text, bio-omics data arranged in sequences, or sensor data like brain signals. The question arises: Can we harness the potential of these recent LLMs to drive scientific progress? In this tutorial, we will explore the application of large language models to three crucial categories of scientific data: 1) textual data, 2) biomedical sequences, and 3) brain signals. Furthermore, we will delve into LLMs{'} challenges in scientific research, including ensuring trustworthiness, achieving personalization, and adapting to multi-modal data representation."}
{"Title": "Human-Centered Evaluation of Language Technologies", "Abstract": "Evaluation is a cornerstone topic in NLP. However, many criticisms have been raised about the community{'}s evaluation practices, including a lack of human-centered considerations about people{'}s needs for language technologies and their actual impact on people. This {``}evaluation crisis{''} is exacerbated by the recent development of large generative models with diverse and uncertain capabilities. This tutorial aims to inspire more human-centered evaluation in NLP by introducing perspectives and methodologies from human-computer interaction (HCI), a field concerned primarily with the design and evaluation of technologies. The tutorial will start with an overview of current NLP evaluation practices and their limitations, then introduce the {``}toolbox of evaluation methods{''} from HCI with varying considerations such as what to evaluate for, how generalizable the results are to the real-world contexts, and pragmatic costs to conduct the evaluation. The tutorial will also encourage reflection on how these HCI perspectives and methodologies can complement NLP evaluation through Q{\\&}A discussions and a hands-on exercise."}
{"Title": "Are LLMs Good Annotators for Discourse-level Event Relation Extraction?", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated proficiency in a wide array of natural language processing tasks. However, its effectiveness over discourse-level event relation extraction (ERE) tasks remains unexplored. In this paper, we assess the effectiveness of LLMs in addressing discourse-level ERE tasks characterized by lengthy documents and intricate relations encompassing coreference, temporal, causal, and subevent types. Evaluation is conducted using an commercial model, GPT-3.5, and an open-source model, LLaMA-2. Our study reveals a notable underperformance of LLMs compared to the baseline established through supervised learning. Although Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) can improve LLMs performance, it does not scale well compared to the smaller supervised baseline model. Our quantitative and qualitative analysis shows that LLMs have several weaknesses when applied for extracting event relations, including a tendency to fabricate event mentions, and failures to capture transitivity rules among relations, detect long distance relations, or comprehend contexts with dense event mentions."}
{"Title": "Transferability of Syntax-Aware Graph Neural Networks in Zero-Shot Cross-Lingual Semantic Role Labeling", "Abstract": "Recent models in cross-lingual semantic role labeling (SRL) barely analyze the applicability of their network selection.We believe that network selection is important since it affects the transferability of cross-lingual models, i.e., how the model can extract universal features from source languages to label target languages.Therefore, we comprehensively compare the transferability of different graph neural network (GNN)-based models enriched with universal dependency trees.GNN-based models include transformer-based, graph convolutional network-based, and graph attention network (GAT)-based models.We focus our study on a zero-shot setting by training the models in English and evaluating the models in 23 target languages provided by the Universal Proposition Bank.Based on our experiments, we consistently show that syntax from universal dependency trees is essential for cross-lingual SRL models to achieve better transferability.Dependency-aware self-attention with relative position representations (SAN-RPRs) transfer best across languages, especially in the long-range dependency distance.We also show that dependency-aware two-attention relational GATs transfer better than SAN-RPRs in languages where most arguments lie in a 1-2 dependency distance."}
{"Title": "Should Cross-Lingual AMR Parsing go Meta? An Empirical Assessment of Meta-Learning and Joint Learning AMR Parsing", "Abstract": "Cross-lingual AMR parsing is the task of predicting AMR graphs in a target language when training data is available only in a source language. Due to the small size of AMR training data and evaluation data, cross-lingual AMR parsing has only been explored in a small set of languages such as English, Spanish, German, Chinese, and Italian. Taking inspiration from Langedijk et al. (2022), who apply meta-learning to tackle cross-lingual syntactic parsing, we investigate the use of meta-learning for cross-lingual AMR parsing. We evaluate our models in $k$-shot scenarios (including 0-shot) and assess their effectiveness in Croatian, Farsi, Korean, Chinese, and French. Notably, Korean and Croatian test sets are developed as part of our work, based on the existing The Little Prince English AMR corpus, and made publicly available. We empirically study our method by comparing it to classical joint learning. Our findings suggest that while the meta-learning model performs slightly better in 0-shot evaluation for certain languages, the performance gain is minimal or absent when $k$ is higher than 0."}
{"Title": "General Collaborative Framework between Large Language Model and Experts for Universal Information Extraction", "Abstract": "Recently, unified information extraction has garnered widespread attention from the NLP community, which aims to use a unified paradigm to perform various information extraction tasks. However, prevalent unified IE approaches inevitably encounter challenges such as noise interference, abstract label semantics, and diverse span granularity. In this paper, we first present three problematic assumptions regarding the capabilities of unified information extraction model. Furthermore, we propose the General Collaborative Information Extraction (GCIE) framework to address these challenges in universal information extraction tasks. Specifically, GCIE consists of a general Recognizer as well as multiple task-specific Experts for recognizing predefined types and extracting spans respectively. The Recognizer is a large language model, while the Experts comprise a series of smaller language models. Together, they collaborate in a two-stage pipeline to perform unified information extraction. Extensive empirical experiments on 6 IE tasks and several datasets, validate the effectiveness and generality of our approach."}
{"Title": "SEAVER: Attention Reallocation for Mitigating Distractions in Language Models for Conditional Semantic Textual Similarity Measurement", "Abstract": "Conditional Semantic Textual Similarity (C-STS) introduces specific limiting conditions to the traditional Semantic Textual Similarity (STS) task, posing challenges for STS models. Language models employing cross-encoding demonstrate satisfactory performance in STS, yet their effectiveness significantly diminishes in C-STS. In this work, we argue that the failure is due to the fact that the redundant information in the text distracts language models from the required condition-relevant information. To alleviate this, we propose Self-Augmentation via Self-Reweighting (SEAVER), which, based solely on models{'} internal attention and without the need for external auxiliary information, adaptively reallocates the model{'}s attention weights by emphasizing the importance of condition-relevant tokens. On the C-STS-2023 test set, SEAVER consistently improves performance of all million-scale fine-tuning baseline models (up to around 3 points), and even surpasses performance of billion-scale few-shot prompted large language models (such as GPT-4). Our code is available at https://github.com/BaixuanLi/SEAVER."}
{"Title": "Search if you don't know! Knowledge-Augmented Korean Grammatical Error Correction with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Grammatical error correction (GEC) system is a practical task used in the real world, showing high achievements alongside the development of large language models (LLMs). However, these achievements have been primarily obtained in English, and there is a relative lack of performance for non-English data, such as Korean. We hypothesize that this insufficiency occurs because relying solely on the parametric knowledge of LLMs makes it difficult to thoroughly understand the given context in the Korean GEC. Therefore, we propose a Knowledge-Augmented GEC (KAGEC) framework that incorporates evidential information from external sources into the prompt for the GEC task. KAGEC first extracts salient phrases from the given source and retrieves non-parametric knowledge based on these phrases, aiming to enhance the context-aware generation capabilities of LLMs. Furthermore, we conduct validations for fine-grained error types to identify those requiring a retrieval-augmented manner when LLMs perform Korean GEC. According to experimental results, most LLMs, including ChatGPT, demonstrate significant performance improvements when applying KAGEC."}
{"Title": "Measuring the Robustness of NLP Models to Domain Shifts", "Abstract": "Existing research on Domain Robustness (DR) suffers from disparate setups, limited task variety, and scarce research on recent capabilities such as in-context learning. Furthermore, the common practice of measuring DR might not be fully accurate. Current research focuses on challenge sets and relies solely on the Source Drop (SD): Using the source in-domain performance as a reference point for degradation. However, we argue that the Target Drop (TD), which measures degradation from the target in-domain performance, should be used as a complementary point of view. To address these issues, we first curated a DR benchmark comprised of 7 diverse NLP tasks, which enabled us to measure both the SD and the TD. We then conducted a comprehensive large-scale DR study involving over 14,000 domain shifts across 21 fine-tuned models and few-shot LLMs. We found that both model types suffer from drops upon domain shifts. While fine-tuned models excel in-domain, few-shot LLMs often surpass them cross-domain, showing better robustness. In addition, we found that a large SD can often be explained by shifting to a harder domain rather than by a genuine DR challenge, and this highlights the importance of TD as a complementary metric. We hope our study will shed light on the current DR state of NLP models and promote improved evaluation practices toward more robust models."}
{"Title": "Text2Model: Text-based Model Induction for Zero-shot Image Classification", "Abstract": "We address the challenge of building task-agnostic classifiers using only text descriptions, demonstrating a unified approach to image classification, 3D point cloud classification, and action recognition from scenes. Unlike approaches that learn a fixed representation of the output classes, we generate at inference time a model tailored to a query classification task. To generate task-based zero-shot classifiers, we train a hypernetwork that receives class descriptions and outputs a multi-class model. The hypernetwork is designed to be equivariant with respect to the set of descriptions and the classification layer, thus obeying the symmetries of the problem and improving generalization. Our approach generates non-linear classifiers, handles rich textual descriptions, and may be adapted to produce lightweight models efficient enough for on-device applications. We evaluate this approach in a series of zero-shot classification tasks, for image, point-cloud, and action recognition, using a range of text descriptions: From single words to rich descriptions. Our results demonstrate strong improvements over previous approaches, showing that zero-shot learning can be applied with little training data. Furthermore, we conduct an analysis with foundational vision and language models, demonstrating that they struggle to generalize when describing what attributes the class lacks."}
{"Title": "InsertGNN: A Hierarchical Graph Neural Network for the TOEFL Sentence Insertion Problem", "Abstract": "The integration of sentences poses an intriguing challenge within the realm of NLP, but it has not garnered the attention it deserves. Existing methods that focus on sentence arrangement, textual consistency, and question answering have been shown to be inadequate in addressing this issue. To bridge this gap, we introduce InsertGNN which conceptualizes the problem as a graph and employ a hierarchical Graph Neural Network (GNN) to comprehend the interplay between sentences. Our approach was rigorously evaluated on a TOEFL dataset, and its efficacy was further validated on the expansive arXiv dataset using cross-domain learning. Thorough experimentation unequivocally establishes InsertGNN{'}s superiority over all comparative benchmarks, achieving an impressive 70{\\%} accuracy{---}a performance on par with average human test scores."}
{"Title": "Unleashing Large Language Models' Proficiency in Zero-shot Essay Scoring", "Abstract": "Advances in automated essay scoring (AES) have traditionally relied on labeled essays, requiring tremendous cost and expertise for their acquisition. Recently, large language models (LLMs) have achieved great success in various tasks, but their potential is less explored in AES. In this paper, we show that our zero-shot prompting framework, Multi Trait Specialization (MTS), elicits LLMs{'} ample potential for essay scoring. In particular, we automatically decompose writing proficiency into distinct traits and generate scoring criteria for each trait. Then, an LLM is prompted to extract trait scores from several conversational rounds, each round scoring one of the traits based on the scoring criteria. Finally, we derive the overall score via trait averaging and min-max scaling. Experimental results on two benchmark datasets demonstrate that MTS consistently outperforms straightforward prompting (Vanilla) in average QWK across all LLMs and datasets, with maximum gains of 0.437 on TOEFL11 and 0.355 on ASAP. Additionally, with the help of MTS, the small-sized Llama2-13b-chat substantially outperforms ChatGPT, facilitating an effective deployment in real applications."}
{"Title": "DetectBench: Can Large Language Model Detect and Piece Together Implicit Evidence?", "Abstract": "Detecting evidence within the context is a key step in the process of reasoning task. Evaluating and enhancing the capabilities of LLMs in evidence detection will strengthen context-based reasoning performance. This paper proposes a benchmark called DetectBench for verifying the ability to detect and piece together implicit evidence within a long context. DetectBench contains 3,928 multiple-choice questions, with an average of 994 tokens per question. Each question contains an average of 4.55 pieces of implicit evidence, and solving the problem typically requires 7.62 logical jumps to find the correct answer. To enhance the performance of LLMs in evidence detection, this paper proposes Detective Reasoning Prompt and Finetune. Experiments demonstrate that the existing LLMs{'} abilities to detect evidence in long contexts are far inferior to humans. However, the Detective Reasoning Prompt effectively enhances the capability of powerful LLMs in evidence detection, while the Finetuning method shows significant effects in enhancing the performance of weaker LLMs. Moreover, when the abilities of LLMs in evidence detection are improved, their final reasoning performance is also enhanced accordingly."}
{"Title": "Improve Meta-learning for Few-Shot Text Classification with All You Can Acquire from the Tasks", "Abstract": "Meta-learning has emerged as a prominent technology for few-shot text classification and has achieved promising performance. However, existing methods often encounter difficulties in drawing accurate class prototypes from support set samples, primarily due to probable large intra-class differences and small inter-class differences within the task. Recent approaches attempt to incorporate external knowledge or pre-trained language models to augment data, but this requires additional resources and thus does not suit many few-shot scenarios. In this paper, we propose a novel solution to address this issue by adequately leveraging the information within the task itself. Specifically, we utilize label information to construct a task-adaptive metric space, thereby adaptively reducing the intra-class differences and magnifying the inter-class differences. We further employ the optimal transport technique to estimate class prototypes with query set samples together, mitigating the problem of inaccurate and ambiguous support set samples caused by large intra-class differences. We conduct extensive experiments on eight benchmark datasets, and our approach shows obvious advantages over state-of-the-art models across all the tasks on all the datasets. For reproducibility, all the datasets and codes are available at https://github.com/YvoGao/LAQDA."}
{"Title": "CoTAR: Chain-of-Thought Attribution Reasoning with Multi-level Granularity", "Abstract": "State-of-the-art performance in QA tasks is currently achieved by systems employing Large Language Models (LLMs), however these models tend to hallucinate information in their responses. One approach focuses on enhancing the generation process by incorporating attribution from the given input to the output. However, the challenge of identifying appropriate attributions and verifying their accuracy against a source is a complex task that requires significant improvements in assessing such systems. We introduce an attribution-oriented Chain-of-Thought reasoning method to enhance the accuracy of attributions. This approach focuses the reasoning process on generating an attribution-centric output. Evaluations on two context enhanced question-answering datasets using GPT-4 demonstrate improved accuracy and correctness of attributions. In addition, the combination of our method with finetuning enhances the response and attribution accuracy of two smaller LLMs, showing their potential to outperform GPT-4 in some cases."}
{"Title": "SnapNTell: Enhancing Entity-Centric Visual Question Answering with Retrieval Augmented Multimodal LLM", "Abstract": "Vision-extended LLMs have made significant strides in Visual Question Answering (VQA). Despite these advancements, VLLMs still encounter substantial difficulties in handling queries involving long-tail entities, with a tendency to produce erroneous or hallucinated responses. In this work, we introduce a novel evaluative benchmark named \\textbf{SnapNTell}, specifically tailored for entity-centric VQA. This task aims to test the models{'} capabilities in identifying entities and providing detailed, entity-specific knowledge. We have developed the \\textbf{SnapNTell Dataset}, distinct from traditional VQA datasets: (1) It encompasses a wide range of categorized entities, each represented by images and explicitly named in the answers; (2) It features QA pairs that require extensive knowledge for accurate responses. The dataset is organized into 22 major categories, containing 7,568 unique entities in total. For each entity, we curated 10 illustrative images and crafted 10 knowledge-intensive QA pairs. To address this novel task, we devised a scalable, efficient, and transparent retrieval-augmented multimodal LLM. Our approach markedly outperforms existing methods on the SnapNTell dataset, achieving a 66.5{\\%} improvement in the BELURT score."}
{"Title": "SRAP-Agent: Simulating and Optimizing Scarce Resource Allocation Policy with LLM-based Agent", "Abstract": "Public scarce resource allocation plays a crucial role in economics as it directly influences the efficiency and equity in society. Traditional studies including theoretical model-based, empirical study-based and simulation-based methods encounter limitations due to the idealized assumption of complete information and individual rationality, as well as constraints posed by limited available data. In this work, we propose an innovative framework, SRAP-Agent, which integrates Large Language Models (LLMs) into economic simulations, aiming to bridge the gap between theoretical models and real-world dynamics. Using public housing allocation scenarios as a case study, we conduct extensive policy simulation experiments to verify the feasibility and effectiveness of the SRAP-Agent and employ the Policy Optimization Algorithm with certain optimization objectives. The source code can be found in \\url{https://github.com/jijiarui-cather/SRAPAgent_Framework}."}
{"Title": "Ukrainian Resilience: A Dataset for Detection of Help-Seeking Signals Amidst the Chaos of War", "Abstract": "We propose a novel dataset {``}Ukrainian Resilience{''} that brings together a collection of social media posts in the Ukrainian language for the detection of help-seeking posts in the Russia-Ukraine war. It is designed to help us analyze and categorize subtle signals in these posts that indicate people are asking for help during times of war. We are using advanced language processing and machine learning techniques to pick up on the nuances of language that show distress or urgency. The dataset is the binary classification of the social media posts that required help and did not require help in the war. The dataset could significantly improve humanitarian efforts, allowing for quicker and more targeted help for those facing the challenges of war. Moreover, the baseline models are implemented and GPT 3.5 achieved an accuracy of 81.15{\\%}."}
{"Title": "Selective Annotation via Data Allocation: These Data Should Be Triaged to Experts for Annotation Rather Than the Model", "Abstract": "To obtain high-quality annotations under limited budget, semi-automatic annotation methods are commonly used, where a portion of the data is annotated by experts and a model is then trained to complete the annotations for the remaining data. However, these methods mainly focus on selecting informative data for expert annotations to improve the model predictive ability (i.e., triage-to-human data), while the rest of the data is indiscriminately assigned to model annotation (i.e., triage-to-model data). This may lead to inefficiencies in budget allocation for annotations, as easy data that the model could accurately annotate may be unnecessarily assigned to the expert, and hard data may be misclassified by the model. As a result, the overall annotation quality may be compromised. To address this issue, we propose a selective annotation framework called SANT. It effectively takes advantage of both the triage-to-human and triage-to-model data through the proposed error-aware triage and bi-weighting mechanisms. As such, informative or hard data is assigned to the expert for annotation, while easy data is handled by the model. Experimental results show that SANT consistently outperforms other baselines, leading to higher-quality annotation through its proper allocation of data to both expert and model workers. We provide pioneering work on data annotation within budget constraints, establishing a landmark for future triage-based annotation studies."}
{"Title": "Document Hashing with Multi-Grained Prototype-Induced Hierarchical Generative Model", "Abstract": "Document hashing plays a crucial role in large-scale information retrieval. However, existing unsupervised document hashing methods merely consider flat semantics of documents, resulting in the inability of preserving hierarchical semantics in hash codes. In this paper, we propose a hierarchical generative model that can model and leverage the hierarchical structure of semantics. Specifically, we introduce hierarchical prototypes into the model to construct a hierarchical prior distribution, which is integrated into the variational auto-encoder (VAE) framework, enabling the model to produce hash codes preserving rough hierarchical semantics. To further promote the preservation of hierarchical structure, we force the hash code to preserve as much semantic information as possible via contrastive learning, which exploits the hierarchical pseudo labels produced during VAE training. Extensive experiments on three benchmarks outperform all baseline methods, demonstrating the superiority of our proposed model on both hierarchical datasets and flat datasets."}
{"Title": "Predictive Multiplicity of Knowledge Graph Embeddings in Link Prediction", "Abstract": "Knowledge graph embedding (KGE) models are often used to predict missing links for knowledge graphs (KGs). However, multiple KG embeddings can perform almost equally well for link prediction yet give conflicting predictions for unseen queries. This phenomenon is termed \\textit{predictive multiplicity} in the literature. It poses substantial risks for KGE-based applications in high-stake domains but has been overlooked in KGE research. We define predictive multiplicity in link prediction, introduce evaluation metrics and measure predictive multiplicity for representative KGE methods on commonly used benchmark datasets. Our empirical study reveals significant predictive multiplicity in link prediction, with 8{\\%} to 39{\\%} testing queries exhibiting conflicting predictions. We address this issue by leveraging voting methods from social choice theory, significantly mitigating conflicts by 66{\\%} to 78{\\%} in our experiments."}
{"Title": "Temporal Fact Reasoning over Hyper-Relational Knowledge Graphs", "Abstract": "Stemming from traditional knowledge graphs (KGs), hyper-relational KGs (HKGs) provide additional key-value pairs (i.e., qualifiers) for each KG fact that help to better restrict the fact validity. In recent years, there has been an increasing interest in studying graph reasoning over HKGs. Meanwhile, as discussed in recent works that focus on temporal KGs (TKGs), world knowledge is ever-evolving, making it important to reason over temporal facts in KGs. Previous mainstream benchmark HKGs do not explicitly specify temporal information for each HKG fact. Therefore, almost all existing HKG reasoning approaches do not devise any module specifically for temporal reasoning. To better study temporal fact reasoning over HKGs, we propose a new type of data structure named hyper-relational TKG (HTKG). Every fact in an HTKG is coupled with a timestamp explicitly indicating its time validity. We develop two new benchmark HTKG datasets, i.e., Wiki-hy and YAGO-hy, and propose an HTKG reasoning model that efficiently models hyper-relational temporal facts. To support future research on this topic, we open-source our datasets and model."}
{"Title": "GREEN: Generative Radiology Report Evaluation and Error Notation", "Abstract": "Evaluating radiology reports is a challenging problem as factual correctness is extremely important due to its medical nature. Existing automatic evaluation metrics either suffer from failing to consider factual correctness (e.g., BLEU and ROUGE) or are limited in their interpretability (e.g., F1CheXpert and F1RadGraph). In this paper, we introduce GREEN (Generative Radiology Report Evaluation and Error Notation), a radiology report generation metric that leverages the natural language understanding of language models to identify and explain clinically significant errors in candidate reports, both quantitatively and qualitatively. Compared to current metrics, GREEN offers: 1) a score aligned with expert preferences, 2) human interpretable explanations of clinically significant errors, enabling feedback loops with end-users, and 3) a lightweight open-source method that reaches the performance of commercial counterparts. We validate our GREEN metric by comparing it to GPT-4, as well as to error counts of 6 experts and preferences of 2 experts. Our method demonstrates not only higher correlation with expert error counts, but simultaneously higher alignment with expert preferences when compared to previous approaches."}
{"Title": "XRec: Large Language Models for Explainable Recommendation", "Abstract": "Recommender systems help users navigate information overload by providing personalized recommendations aligned with their preferences. Collaborative Filtering (CF) is a widely adopted approach, but while advanced techniques like graph neural networks (GNNs) and self-supervised learning (SSL) have enhanced CF models for better user representations, they often lack the ability to provide explanations for the recommended items. Explainable recommendations aim to address this gap by offering transparency and insights into the recommendation decision-making process, enhancing users{'} understanding. This work leverages the language capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) to push the boundaries of explainable recommender systems. We introduce a model-agnostic framework called XRec, which enables LLMs to provide comprehensive explanations for user behaviors in recommender systems. By integrating collaborative signals and designing a lightweight collaborative adaptor, the framework empowers LLMs to understand complex patterns in user-item interactions and gain a deeper understanding of user preferences. Our extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of XRec, showcasing its ability to generate comprehensive and meaningful explanations that outperform baseline approaches in explainable recommender systems."}
{"Title": "LLM Questionnaire Completion for Automatic Psychiatric Assessment", "Abstract": "We employ a Large Language Model (LLM) to convert unstructured psychological interviews into structured questionnaires spanning various psychiatric and personality domains. The LLM is prompted to answer these questionnaires by impersonating the interviewee. The obtained answers are coded as features, which are used to predict standardized psychiatric measures of depression (PHQ-8) and PTSD (PCL-C), using a Random Forest regressor. Our approach is shown to enhance diagnostic accuracy compared to multiple baselines. It thus establishes a novel framework for interpreting unstructured psychological interviews, bridging the gap between narrative-driven and data-driven approaches for mental health assessment."}
{"Title": "Disordered-DABS: A Benchmark for Dynamic Aspect-Based Summarization in Disordered Texts", "Abstract": "Aspect-based summarization has seen significant advancements, especially in structured text. Yet, summarizing disordered, large-scale texts, like those found in social media and customer feedback, remains a significant challenge. Current research largely targets predefined aspects within structured texts, neglecting the complexities of dynamic and disordered environments. Addressing this gap, we introduce Disordered-DABS, a novel benchmark for dynamic aspect-based summarization tailored to unstructured text. Developed by adapting existing datasets for cost-efficiency and scalability, our comprehensive experiments and detailed human evaluations reveal that Disordered-DABS poses unique challenges to contemporary summarization models, including state-of-the-art language models such as GPT-3.5."}
{"Title": "Walia-LLM: Enhancing Amharic-LLaMA by Integrating Task-Specific and Generative Datasets", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have received a lot of attention in natural language processing (NLP) research because of their exceptional performance in understanding and generating human languages. However, low-resource languages are left behind due to the unavailability of resources. In this work, we focus on enhancing the LLaMA-2-Amharic model by integrating task-specific and generative datasets to improve language model performance for Amharic. We compile an Amharic instruction fine-tuning dataset and fine-tuned LLaMA-2-Amharic model. The fine-tuned model shows promising results in different NLP tasks. We also explore the effectiveness of translated instruction datasets compared to the dataset we created. Our dataset creation pipeline, along with instruction datasets, trained models, and evaluation outputs, is made publicly available to encourage research in language-specific models."}
{"Title": "Can Large Language Models Identify Authorship?", "Abstract": "The ability to accurately identify authorship is crucial for verifying content authenticity and mitigating misinformation. Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional capacity for reasoning and problem-solving. However, their potential in authorship analysis remains under-explored. Traditional studies have depended on hand-crafted stylistic features, whereas state-of-the-art approaches leverage text embeddings from pre-trained language models. These methods, which typically require fine-tuning on labeled data, often suffer from performance degradation in cross-domain applications and provide limited explainability. This work seeks to address three research questions: (1) Can LLMs perform zero-shot, end-to-end authorship verification effectively? (2) Are LLMs capable of accurately attributing authorship among multiple candidates authors (e.g., 10 and 20)? (3) Can LLMs provide explainability in authorship analysis, particularly through the role of linguistic features? Moreover, we investigate the integration of explicit linguistic features to guide LLMs in their reasoning processes. Our assessment demonstrates LLMs{'} proficiency in both tasks without the need for domain-specific fine-tuning, providing explanations into their decision making via a detailed analysis of linguistic features. This establishes a new benchmark for future research on LLM-based authorship analysis."}
{"Title": "TransLLaMa: LLM-based Simultaneous Translation System", "Abstract": "Decoder-only large language models (LLMs) have recently demonstrated impressive capabilities in text generation and reasoning. Nonetheless, they have limited applications in simultaneous machine translation (SiMT), currently dominated by encoder-decoder transformers. This study demonstrates that, after fine-tuning on a small dataset comprising causally aligned source and target sentence pairs, a pre-trained open-source LLM can control input segmentation directly by generating a special {``}wait{''} token. This obviates the need for a separate policy and enables the LLM to perform English-German and English-Russian SiMT tasks with BLEU scores that are comparable to those of specific state-of-the-art baselines. We also evaluated closed-source models such as GPT-4, which displayed encouraging results in performing the SiMT task without prior training (zero-shot), indicating a promising avenue for enhancing future SiMT systems."}
{"Title": "Axis Tour: Word Tour Determines the Order of Axes in ICA-transformed Embeddings", "Abstract": "Word embedding is one of the most important components in natural language processing, but interpreting high-dimensional embeddings remains a challenging problem. To address this problem, Independent Component Analysis (ICA) is identified as an effective solution. ICA-transformed word embeddings reveal interpretable semantic axes; however, the order of these axes are arbitrary. In this study, we focus on this property and propose a novel method, Axis Tour, which optimizes the order of the axes. Inspired by Word Tour, a one-dimensional word embedding method, we aim to improve the clarity of the word embedding space by maximizing the semantic continuity of the axes. Furthermore, we show through experiments on downstream tasks that Axis Tour yields better or comparable low-dimensional embeddings compared to both PCA and ICA."}
{"Title": "Granularity is crucial when applying differential privacy to text: An investigation for neural machine translation", "Abstract": "Applying differential privacy (DP) by means of the DP-SGD algorithm to protect individual data points during training is becoming increasingly popular in NLP. However, the choice of granularity at which DP is applied is often neglected. For example, neural machine translation (NMT) typically operates on the sentence-level granularity. From the perspective of DP, this setup assumes that each sentence belongs to a single person and any two sentences in the training dataset are independent. This assumption is however violated in many real-world NMT datasets, e.g., those including dialogues. For proper application of DP we thus must shift from sentences to entire documents. In this paper, we investigate NMT at both the sentence and document levels, analyzing the privacy/utility trade-off for both scenarios, and evaluating the risks of not using the appropriate privacy granularity in terms of leaking personally identifiable information (PII). Our findings indicate that the document-level NMT system is more resistant to membership inference attacks, emphasizing the significance of using the appropriate granularity when working with DP."}
{"Title": "An Open-Source Data Contamination Report for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Data contamination in model evaluation has become increasingly prevalent with the growing popularity of large language models. It allows models to {``}cheat{''} via memorisation instead of displaying true capabilities. Therefore, contamination analysis has become an crucial part of reliable model evaluation to validate results. However, existing contamination analysis is usually conducted internally by large language model developers and often lacks transparency and completeness. This paper presents an extensive data contamination report for over 15 popular large language models across six popular multiple-choice QA benchmarks. We also introduce an open-source pipeline that enables the community to perform contamination analysis on customised data and models. Our experiments reveal varying contamination levels ranging from 1{\\%} to 45{\\%} across benchmarks, with the contamination degree increasing rapidly over time. Performance analysis of large language models indicates that data contamination does not necessarily lead to increased model metrics: while significant accuracy boosts of up to 14{\\%} and 7{\\%} are observed on contaminated C-Eval and Hellaswag benchmarks, only a minimal increase is noted on contaminated MMLU. We also find larger models seem able to gain more advantages than smaller models on contaminated test sets."}
{"Title": "Few shot chain-of-thought driven reasoning to prompt LLMs for open-ended medical question answering", "Abstract": "In this paper, we propose a modified version of the MedQA-USMLE dataset, named MEDQA-OPEN, which contains open-ended medical questions without options to mimic clinical scenarios, along with clinician-approved reasoned answers. Additionally, we implement a prompt driven by Chain of Thought (CoT) reasoning, CLINICR, to mirror the prospective process of incremental reasoning, reaching a correct response to medical questions. We empirically demonstrate how CLINICR outperforms the state-of-the-art 5-shot CoT-based prompt (Li{\\'e}vin et al., 2022). We also present an approach that mirrors real-life clinical practice by first exploring multiple differential diagnoses through MCQ-CLINICR and subsequently narrowing down to a final diagnosis using MCQ-ELIMINATIVE. Finally, emphasizing the importance of response verification in medical settings, we utilize a reward model mechanism, replacing the elimination process performed by MCQ-ELIMINATIVE."}
{"Title": "Reformatted Alignment", "Abstract": "The quality of finetuning data is crucial for aligning large language models (LLMs) with human values. Current methods to improve data quality are either labor-intensive or prone to factual errors caused by LLM hallucinations. This paper explores elevating the quality of existing instruction data to better align with human values, introducing a simple and effective approach named ReAlign, which reformats the responses of instruction data into a format that better aligns with pre-established criteria and the collated evidence. This approach minimizes human annotation, hallucination, and the difficulty in scaling, remaining orthogonal to existing alignment techniques. Experimentally, ReAlign significantly boosts the general alignment ability, math reasoning, factuality, and readability of the LLMs.Encouragingly, without introducing any additional data or advanced training techniques, and merely by reformatting the response, LLaMA-2-13B{'}s mathematical reasoning ability on GSM8K can be improved **from 46.77{\\%} to 56.63{\\%}** in accuracy. Additionally, a mere 5{\\%} of ReAlign data yields a 67{\\%} boost in general alignment ability measured by the Alpaca dataset. This work highlights the need for further research into the science and mechanistic interpretability of LLMs. We have made the associated code and data publicly accessible to support future studies at https://github.com/GAIR-NLP/ReAlign."}
{"Title": "Unsupervised Domain Adaptation for Keyphrase Generation using Citation Contexts", "Abstract": "Adapting keyphrase generation models to new domains typically involves few-shot fine-tuning with in-domain labeled data. However, annotating documents with keyphrases is often prohibitively expensive and impractical, requiring expert annotators. This paper presents silk, an unsupervised method designed to address this issue by extracting silver-standard keyphrases from citation contexts to create synthetic labeled data for domain adaptation. Extensive experiments across three distinct domains demonstrate that our method yields high-quality synthetic samples, resulting in significant and consistent improvements in in-domain performance over strong baselines."}
{"Title": "SMILE: Single-turn to Multi-turn Inclusive Language Expansion via ChatGPT for Mental Health Support", "Abstract": "Developing specialized dialogue systems for mental health support requires multi-turn conversation data, which has recently garnered increasing attention. However, gathering and releasing large-scale, real-life multi-turn conversations that could facilitate advancements in mental health support presents challenges in data privacy protection and the time and cost involved in crowdsourcing. To address these challenges, we introduce SMILE, a single-turn to multi-turn inclusive language expansion technique that prompts ChatGPT to rewrite public single-turn dialogues into multi-turn ones. Our work begins by analyzing language transformation and validating the feasibility of our proposed method. We conduct a study on dialogue diversity, including lexical features, semantic features, and dialogue topics, demonstrating the effectiveness of our method. Further, we employ our method to generate a large-scale, lifelike, and diverse dialogue dataset named SMILECHAT, consisting of 55k dialogues. Finally, we utilize the collected corpus to develop a mental health chatbot, MeChat. To better assess the quality of SMILECHAT, we collect a small-scale real-life counseling dataset conducted by data anonymization. Both automatic and human evaluations demonstrate significant improvements in our dialogue system and confirm that SMILECHAT is high-quality. Code, data, and model are publicly available at https://github.com/qiuhuachuan/smile."}
{"Title": "DocEE-zh: A Fine-grained Benchmark for Chinese Document-level Event Extraction", "Abstract": "Event extraction aims to identify events and then extract the arguments involved in those events. In recent years, there has been a gradual shift from sentence-level event extraction to document-level event extraction research. Despite the significant success achieved in English domain event extraction research, event extraction in Chinese still remains largely unexplored. However, a major obstacle to promoting Chinese document-level event extraction is the lack of fine-grained, wide domain coverage datasets for model training and evaluation. In this paper, we propose DocEE-zh, a new Chinese document-level event extraction dataset comprising over 36,000 events and more than 210,000 arguments. DocEE-zh is an extension of the DocEE dataset, utilizing the same event schema, and all data has been meticulously annotated by human experts. We highlight two features: focus on high-interest event types and fine-grained argument types. Experimental results indicate that state-of-the-art models still fail to achieve satisfactory performance, with an F1 score of 45.88{\\%} on the event argument extraction task, revealing that Chinese document-level event extraction (DocEE) remains an unresolved challenge. DocEE-zh is now available at https://github.com/tongmeihan1995/DocEE.git."}
{"Title": "MalayMMLU: A Multitask Benchmark for the Low-Resource Malay Language", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Symbolic Prompt Program Search: A Structure-Aware Approach to Efficient Compile-Time Prompt Optimization", "Abstract": "In many modern LLM applications, such as retrieval augmented generation, prompts have become programs themselves. In these settings, prompt programs are repeatedly called with different user queries or data instances. A big practical challenge is optimizing such prompt programs. Recent work has mostly focused on either simple prompt programs or assumed that the structure of a prompt program is fixed.We introduce SAMMO, a framework to perform symbolic prompt program search for compile-time optimizations of prompt programs. SAMMO represents prompt programs on a symbolic level which allows for a rich set of transformations that can be searched over during optimization. We show that SAMMO generalizes previous methods and improves the performance of complex prompts on (1) instruction tuning, (2) RAG pipeline tuning, and (3) prompt compression, across several different LLMs. We make all code available open-source at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/sammo-4003/."}
{"Title": "Learning to Route for Dynamic Adapter Composition in Continual Learning with Language Models", "Abstract": "Parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods are increasingly used with pre-trained language models (PLMs) for continual learning (CL). These methods typically involve training a PEFT module for each new task and employing similarity-based selection to route modules during inference. However, they face two major limitations: 1) interference during module training with already learned modules and 2) suboptimal routing when composing modules. In this paper, we present L2R, a method that isolates the training of new PEFT modules to ensure their task specialization. L2R then learns to compose the learned modules by training a network of routers that leverages a small memory containing examples of previously seen tasks. We evaluate our method in two CL setups using various benchmarks. Our results demonstrate that L2R provides an effective composition of PEFT modules, leading to improved generalization and performance compared to other methods."}
{"Title": "LLM-supertagger: Categorial Grammar Supertagging via Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Supertagging is an essential task in Categorical grammar parsing and is crucial for dissecting sentence structures. Our research explores the capacity of Large Language Models (LLMs) in supertagging for both Combinatory Categorial Grammar (CCG) and Lambek Categorial Grammar (LCG). We also present a simple method that significantly boosts LLMs, enabling them to outperform LSTM and encoder-based models and achieve state-of-the-art performance. This advancement highlights LLMs{'} potential in classification tasks, showcasing their adaptability beyond generative capabilities. Our findings demonstrate the evolving utility of LLMs in natural language processing, particularly in complex tasks like supertagging."}
{"Title": "Editing Conceptual Knowledge for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Recently, there has been a growing interest in knowledge editing for Large Language Models (LLMs). Current approaches and evaluations merely explore the instance-level editing, while whether LLMs possess the capability to modify concepts remains unclear. This paper pioneers the investigation of editing conceptual knowledge for LLMs, by constructing a novel benchmark dataset ConceptEdit and establishing a suite of new metrics for evaluation. The experimental results reveal that, although existing editing methods can efficiently modify concept-level definition to some extent, they also have the potential to distort the related instantial knowledge in LLMs, leading to poor performance. We anticipate this work can inspire further progress in understanding LLMs."}
{"Title": "RAG-Studio: Towards In-Domain Adaptation of Retrieval Augmented Generation Through Self-Alignment", "Abstract": "Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) has proven to be an effective paradigm for enhancing the quality of text generation by integrating large language models (LLMs) with external knowledge. However, an off-the-shelf RAG system, which relies on generally pre-trained LLMs and retrievers, often falls short in specialized domains and applications. In this paper, we introduce RAG-Studio, an efficient self-aligned training framework to adapt general RAG models to specific domains solely through synthetic data, eliminating the need for expensive human-labeled in-domain data. RAG-Studio accepts a specialized domain corpus, a general LLM, and a general retriever, then autonomously generates contrastive training data for both the LLM and retriever through self-alignment. We fine-tune them to work cohesively as an integrated and effective domain-specific RAG system, where the LLM is adapted to incorporate new domain knowledge and become robust to noisy contexts, and the retriever learns to better align with the LLM{'}s preferences, providing more useful information and minimizing the risk of misleading the LLM. Extensive experiments across diverse in-domain question-answering datasets spanning the biomedical, finance, law, and computing domains, show that RAG-Studio attains state-of-the-art performance, consistently outperforming the use of human-annotated data for fine-tuning."}
{"Title": "MMCode: Benchmarking Multimodal Large Language Models for Code Generation with Visually Rich Programming Problems", "Abstract": "Programming often involves converting detailed and complex specifications into code, a process during which developers typically utilize visual aids to more effectively convey concepts. While recent developments in Large Multimodal Models have demonstrated remarkable abilities in visual reasoning and mathematical tasks, there is little work on investigating whether these models can effectively interpret visual elements for code generation. To this end, we present MMCode, the first multi-modal coding dataset for evaluating algorithmic problem-solving skills in visually rich contexts. MMCode contains 3,548 questions and 6,620 images collected from real-world programming challenges harvested from 10 code competition websites, presenting significant challenges due to the extreme demand for reasoning abilities. Our experiment results show that current state-of-the-art models struggle to solve these problems. The results highlight the lack of powerful vision-code models, and we hope MMCode can serve as an inspiration for future works in this domain. The data and code are publicly available."}
{"Title": "Enabling Discriminative Reasoning in LLMs for Legal Judgment Prediction", "Abstract": "Legal judgment prediction is essential for enhancing judicial efficiency. In this work, we identify that existing large language models (LLMs) underperform in this domain due to challenges in understanding case complexities and distinguishing between similar charges. To adapt LLMs for effective legal judgment prediction, we introduce the Ask-Discriminate-Predict (ADAPT) reasoning framework inspired by human judicial reasoning. ADAPT involves decomposing case facts, discriminating among potential charges, and predicting the final judgment. We further enhance LLMs through fine-tuning with multi-task synthetic trajectories to improve legal judgment prediction accuracy and efficiency under our ADAPT framework. Extensive experiments conducted on two widely-used datasets demonstrate the superior performance of our framework in legal judgment prediction, particularly when dealing with complex and confusing charges."}
{"Title": "Preserving Pre-trained Representation Space: On Effectiveness of Prefix-tuning for Large Multi-modal Models", "Abstract": "Recently, we have observed that Large Multi-modal Models (LMMs) are revolutionizing the way machines interact with the world, unlocking new possibilities across various multi-modal applications. To adapt LMMs for downstream tasks, parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) which only trains additional prefix tokens or modules, has gained popularity. Nevertheless, there has been little analysis of how PEFT works in LMMs. In this paper, we delve into the strengths and weaknesses of each tuning strategy, shifting the focus from the efficiency typically associated with these approaches. We first discover that model parameter tuning methods such as LoRA and Adapters, distort the feature representation space learned during pre-training, limiting the full utilization of pre-trained knowledge. We also demonstrate that prefix-tuning excels at preserving the representation space, despite of its lower performance on downstream tasks. These findings suggest a simple two-step PEFT strategy called \\textbf{Prefix-Tuned PEFT (PT-PEFT)}, which successively performs prefix-tuning and then other PEFT (i.e., Adapter, LoRA), combines the benefits of both. Experimental results show that PT-PEFT not only improves performance in image captioning and visual question answering compared to vanilla PEFT methods but also helps preserve the representation space of the four pre-trained models."}
{"Title": "What Would Happen Next? Predicting Consequences from An Event Causality Graph", "Abstract": "Existing script event prediction task forcasts the subsequent event based on an event script chain. However, the evolution of historical events are more complicated in real world scenarios and the limited information provided by the event script chain also make it difficult to accurately predict subsequent events. This paper introduces a Causality Graph Event Prediction(CGEP) task that forecasting consequential event based on an Event Causality Graph (ECG). We propose a Semantic Enhanced Distance-sensitive Graph Prompt Learning (SeDGPL) Model for the CGEP task. In SeDGPL, (1) we design a Distance-sensitive Graph Linearization (DsGL) module to reformulate the ECG into a graph prompt template as the input of a PLM; (2) propose an Event-Enriched Causality Encoding (EeCE) module to integrate both event contextual semantic and graph schema information; (3) propose a Semantic Contrast Event Prediction (ScEP) module to enhance the event representation among numerous candidate events and predict consequential event following prompt learning paradigm. Experiment results validate our argument our proposed SeDGPL model outperforms the advanced competitors for the CGEP task."}
{"Title": "Can LLMs Learn From Mistakes? An Empirical Study on Reasoning Tasks", "Abstract": "Towards enhancing the chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning of large language models (LLMs), much existing work has revealed the effectiveness of straightforward learning on annotated/generated CoT paths. However, there is less evidence yet that reasoning capabilities can be enhanced through a reverse learning process, i.e., learning from potential mistakes in reasoning. To investigate whether LLMs can learn from mistakes, we construct mistake-correction datasets, using GPT-4 to identify and correct the mistakes in inaccurate CoTs. With these mistake-correction datasets, we fine-tune open-source LLMs and arrive at the following conclusions. (1) LLMs can indeed learn from mistakes to enhance their CoT reasoning performances. (2) Compared to CoT data, the mistake-correction data provides additional knowledge on the explanations and reasons for the potential mistakes in CoTs, which consistently contributes to the effectiveness of learning from mistakes. (3) Evolution techniques, especially the correction-centric evolution we introduced, can further enhance the effectiveness of learning from mistakes."}
{"Title": "Temporal Cognitive Tree: A Hierarchical Modeling Approach for Event Temporal Relation Extraction", "Abstract": "Understanding and analyzing event temporal relations is a crucial task in Natural Language Processing (NLP). This task, known as Event Temporal Relation Extraction (ETRE), aims to identify and extract temporal connections between events in text. Recent studies focus on locating the relative position of event pairs on the timeline by designing logical expressions or auxiliary tasks to predict their temporal occurrence. Despite these advances, this modeling approach neglects the multidimensional information in temporal relation and the hierarchical process of reasoning. In this study, we propose a novel hierarchical modeling approach for this task by introducing a Temporal Cognitive Tree (TCT) that mimics human logical reasoning. Additionally, we also design a integrated model incorporating prompt optimization and deductive reasoning to exploit multidimensional supervised information. Extensive experiments on TB-Dense and MATRES datasets demonstrate that our approach outperforms existing methods."}
{"Title": "LongGenBench: Long-context Generation Benchmark", "Abstract": "Current long-context benchmarks primarily focus on retrieval-based tests, requiring Large Language Models (LLMs) to locate specific information within extensive input contexts, such as the needle-in-a-haystack (NIAH) benchmark. Long-context generation refers to the ability of a language model to generate coherent and contextually accurate text that spans across lengthy passages or documents. While recent studies show strong performance on NIAH and other retrieval-based long-context benchmarks, there is a significant lack of benchmarks for evaluating long-context generation capabilities. To bridge this gap and offer a comprehensive assessment, we introduce a synthetic benchmark, LongGenBench, which allows for flexible configurations of customized generation context lengths. LongGenBench advances beyond traditional benchmarks by redesigning the format of questions and necessitating that LLMs respond with a single, cohesive long-context answer. Upon extensive evaluation using LongGenBench, we observe that: (1) both API accessed and open source models exhibit performance degradation in long-context generation scenarios, ranging from 1.2{\\%} to 47.1{\\%}; (2) different series of LLMs exhibit varying trends of performance degradation, with the Gemini-1.5-Flash model showing the least degradation among API accessed models, and the Qwen2 series exhibiting the least degradation in LongGenBench among open source models."}
{"Title": "RaFe: Ranking Feedback Improves Query Rewriting for RAG", "Abstract": "As Large Language Models (LLMs) and Retrieval Augmentation Generation (RAG) techniques have evolved, query rewriting has been widely incorporated into the RAG system for downstream tasks like open-domain QA to enhance document retrieval by reformulating queries. Many works have attempted to improve query rewriting in smaller models to avoid rewriting with costly LLMs, and the most common method is to employ reinforcement learning for feedback training. However, current methods require annotations (labeled relevant documents or downstream answers) or predesigned rewards for feedback, lack generalization, and fail to utilize signals tailored for query rewriting. In this paper, we propose RaFe, a framework for training query rewriting models. By leveraging reranker, RaFe provides ranking feedback aligned well with the rewriting objectives without needing signals from annotations and supports both online and offline training models. Experimental results demonstrate that with a general and publicly available reranker, RaFe can effectively steer the training for rewrite models."}
{"Title": "BASES: Large-scale Web Search User Simulation with Large Language Model based Agents", "Abstract": "Due to the excellent capacities of large language models (LLMs), it becomes feasible to develop LLM-based agents for reliable user simulation. Considering the scarcity and limit (e.g., privacy issues) of real user data, in this paper, we conduct large-scale user simulations for the web search scenario to improve the analysis and modeling of user search behavior. Specially, we propose BASES, a novel user simulation framework with LLM-based agents, designed to facilitate comprehensive simulations of web search user behaviors. Our simulation framework can generate unique user profiles at scale, which subsequently leads to diverse search behaviors. To demonstrate the effectiveness of BASES, we conduct evaluation experiments based on two human benchmarks in both Chinese and English, demonstrating that BASES can effectively simulate large-scale human-like search behaviors. To further accommodate the research on web search, we develop WARRIORS, a new large-scale dataset encompassing web search user behaviors, including both Chinese and English versions, which can greatly bolster research in the field of information retrieval."}
{"Title": "Make Large Language Model a Better Ranker", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate robust capabilities across various fields, leading to a paradigm shift in LLM-enhanced Recommender System (RS). Research to date focuses on point-wise and pair-wise recommendation paradigms, which are inefficient for LLM-based recommenders due to high computational costs. However, existing list-wise approaches also fall short in ranking tasks due to misalignment between ranking objectives and next-token prediction. Moreover, these LLM-based methods struggle to effectively address the order relation among candidates, particularly given the scale of ratings. To address these challenges, this paper introduces the large language model framework with Aligned Listwise Ranking Objectives (ALRO). ALRO is designed to bridge the gap between the capabilities of LLMs and the nuanced requirements of ranking tasks. Specifically, ALRO employs explicit feedback in a listwise manner by introducing soft lambda loss, a customized adaptation of lambda loss designed for optimizing order relations. This mechanism provides more accurate optimization goals, enhancing the ranking process. Additionally, ALRO incorporates a permutation-sensitive learning mechanism that addresses position bias, a prevalent issue in generative models, without imposing additional computational burdens during inference. Our evaluative studies reveal that ALRO outperforms both existing embedding-based recommendation methods and LLM-based recommendation baselines."}
{"Title": "SpeciaLex: A Benchmark for In-Context Specialized Lexicon Learning", "Abstract": "Specialized lexicons are collections of words with associated constraints such as special definitions, specific roles, and intended target audiences. These constraints are necessary for content generation and documentation tasks (e.g., writing technical manuals or children{'}s reading materials), where the goal is to reduce the ambiguity of text content and increase its overall readability for a specific group of audience. Understanding how large language models can capture these constraints can help researchers build better, more impactful tools for wider use beyond the NLP community. Towards this end, we introduce SpeciaLex, a benchmark for evaluating a language model{'}s ability to follow specialized lexicon-based constraints across 18 diverse subtasks with 1,785 test instances covering core tasks of Checking, Identification, Rewriting, and Open Generation. We present an empirical evaluation of 15 open and closed-source LLMs and discuss insights on how factors such as model scale, openness, setup, and recency affect performance upon evaluating with the benchmark."}
{"Title": "Devil's Advocate: Anticipatory Reflection for LLM Agents", "Abstract": "In this work, we introduce a novel approach that equips LLM agents with introspection, enhancing consistency and adaptability in solving complex tasks. Our approach prompts LLM agents to decompose a given task into manageable subtasks (i.e., to make a plan), and to continuously introspect upon the suitability and results of their actions. We implement a three-fold introspective intervention: 1) anticipatory reflection on potential failures and alternative remedy before action execution, 2) post-action alignment with subtask objectives and backtracking with remedy to ensure utmost effort in plan execution, and 3) comprehensive review upon plan completion for future strategy refinement. By deploying and experimenting with this methodology{---}a zero-shot approach{---}within WebArena for practical tasks in web environments, our agent demonstrates superior performance with a success rate of 23.5{\\%} over existing zero-shot methods by 3.5{\\%}. The experimental results suggest that our introspection-driven approach not only enhances the agent{'}s ability to navigate unanticipated challenges through a robust mechanism of plan execution, but also improves efficiency by reducing the number of trials and plan revisions by 45{\\%} needed to achieve a task."}
{"Title": "API Is Enough: Conformal Prediction for Large Language Models Without Logit-Access", "Abstract": "This study aims to address the pervasive challenge of quantifying uncertainty in large language models (LLMs) with black-box API access. Conformal Prediction (CP), known for its model-agnostic and distribution-free features, is a desired approach for various LLMs and data distributions. However, existing CP methods for LLMs typically assume access to the logits, which are unavailable for some API-only LLMs. In addition, logits are known to be miscalibrated, potentially leading to degraded CP performance. To tackle these challenges, we introduce a novel CP method that (1) is tailored for API-only LLMs without logit-access; (2) minimizes the size of prediction sets; and (3) ensures a statistical guarantee of the user-defined coverage. The core idea of this approach is to formulate nonconformity measures using both coarse-grained (i.e., sample frequency) and fine-grained uncertainty notions (e.g., semantic similarity). Experimental results on both close-ended and open-ended Question Answering tasks show our approach can mostly outperform the logit-based CP baselines."}
{"Title": "Introducing Compiler Semantics into Large Language Models as Programming Language Translators: A Case Study of C to x86 Assembly", "Abstract": "Compilers are complex software containing millions of lines of code, taking years to develop. This paper investigates to what extent Large Language Models (LLMs) can replace hand-crafted compilers in translating high-level programming languages to machine instructions, using C to x86 assembly as a case study. We identify two challenges of using LLMs for code translation and introduce two novel data pre-processing techniques to address the challenges: numerical value conversion and training data resampling. While only using a 13B model, our approach achieves a behavioral accuracy of over 91{\\%}, outperforming the much larger GPT-4 Turbo model by over 50{\\%}. Our results are encouraging, showing that LLMs have the potential to transform how compilation tools are constructed."}
{"Title": "Negating Negatives: Alignment with Human Negative Samples via Distributional Dispreference Optimization", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized the role of AI, yet pose potential social risks. To steer LLMs towards human preference, alignment technologies have been introduced and gained increasing attention. Nevertheless, existing methods heavily rely on high-quality positive-negative training pairs, suffering from noisy positive responses that are barely distinguishable from negative ones. Given recent LLMs{'} proficiency in generating helpful responses, this work pivots towards a new research question: **can we achieve alignment using solely human-annotated negative samples, preserving helpfulness while reducing harmfulness?** For this purpose, we propose Distributional Dispreference Optimization (D$^2$O), which maximizes the discrepancy between dispreferred responses and the generated non-negative ones. In this way, D$^2$O effectively eschews harmful information without incorporating noisy positive samples, while avoiding collapse using self-generated responses as anchors. We demonstrate that D$^2$O can be regarded as learning a distributional preference model reflecting human dispreference against negative responses, which is theoretically an upper bound of the instance-level DPO. Extensive experiments manifest that our method achieves comparable generation quality and surpasses the latest strong baselines in producing less harmful and more informative responses with better training stability and faster convergence."}
{"Title": "OffsetBias: Leveraging Debiased Data for Tuning Evaluators", "Abstract": "Employing Large Language Models (LLMs) to assess the quality of generated responses has become a widely adopted evaluation method. Specifically, instruct-tuned models and fine-tuned judge models based on open-source LLMs have been reported. While it is known that judge models are vulnerable to certain biases, such as favoring longer answers regardless of content, the specifics of these biases remain under-explored. In this work, we qualitatively identify six types of biases inherent in various judge models. We propose EvalBiasBench as a meta-evaluation collection of hand-crafted test cases for each bias type. Additionally, we present de-biasing dataset construction methods and the associated preference dataset OffsetBias. Experimental results demonstrate that fine-tuning on our dataset significantly enhances the robustness of judge models against biases and improves performance across most evaluation scenarios. We release our datasets and the fine-tuned judge model to public."}
{"Title": "Employing Glyphic Information for Chinese Event Extraction with Vision-Language Model", "Abstract": "As a complex task that requires rich information input, features from various aspects have been utilized in event extraction. However, most of the previous works ignored the value of glyph, which could contain enriched semantic information and can not be fully expressed by the pre-trained embedding in hieroglyphic languages like Chinese. We argue that, compared with combining the sophisticated textual features, glyphic information from visual modality could provide us with extra and straight semantic information in extracting events. Motivated by this, we propose a glyphic multi-modal Chinese event extraction model with hieroglyphic images to capture the intra- and inter-character morphological structure from the sequence. Extensive experiments build a new state-of-the-art performance in the ACE2005 Chinese and KBP Eval 2017 dataset, which underscores the effectiveness of our proposed glyphic event extraction model, and more importantly, the glyphic feature can be obtained at nearly zero cost."}
{"Title": "Can CLIP Count Stars? An Empirical Study on Quantity Bias in CLIP", "Abstract": "CLIP has demonstrated great versatility in adapting to various downstream tasks, such as image editing and generation, visual question answering, and video understanding. However, CLIP-based applications often suffer from misunderstandings regarding user intent, leading to discrepancies between the required number of objects and the actual outputs in image generation tasks. In this work, we empirically investigate the quantity bias in CLIP. By carefully designing different experimental settings and datasets, we comprehensively evaluate CLIP{'}s understanding of quantity from text, image, and cross-modal perspectives. Our experimental results reveal a quantity bias in CLIP embeddings, impacting the reliability of downstream tasks."}
{"Title": "LLM-A*: Large Language Model Enhanced Incremental Heuristic Search on Path Planning", "Abstract": "Path planning is a fundamental scientific problem in robotics and autonomous navigation, requiring the derivation of efficient routes from starting to destination points while avoiding obstacles. Traditional algorithms like A* and its variants are capable of ensuring path validity but suffer from significant computational and memory inefficiencies as the state space grows. Conversely, large language models (LLMs) excel in broader environmental analysis through contextual understanding, providing global insights into environments. However, they fall short in detailed spatial and temporal reasoning, often leading to invalid or inefficient routes. In this work, we propose LLM-A*, an new LLM based route planning method that synergistically combines the precise pathfinding capabilities of A* with the global reasoning capability of LLMs. This hybrid approach aims to enhance pathfinding efficiency in terms of time and space complexity while maintaining the integrity of path validity, especially in large-scale scenarios. By integrating the strengths of both methodologies, LLM-A* addresses the computational and memory limitations of conventional algorithms without compromising on the validity required for effective pathfinding."}
{"Title": "Guided Knowledge Generation with Language Models for Commonsense Reasoning", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved notable success in commonsense reasoning tasks, benefiting from their extensive world knowledge acquired through extensive pretraining. While approaches like Chain-of-Thought (CoT) have shown promise in enhancing LLMs{'} reasoning capabilities, mitigating the influence of inaccurate commonsense knowledge remains a challenge, particularly for small-scale LLMs (e.g., those with less than 10B parameters). In this work, we propose a novel method named Guided Knowledge Generation (GuideKG) to address these issues. It presents three advantages: (i) Employing LLMs to generate knowledge explanations and to automatically assign labels based on the probability of correct answers eliminates the need for costly manual annotation in subsequent training. (ii) Training a new module called the {`}Know-Filter{'}, which is used to evaluate knowledge, and we have introduced a new loss to enhance its performance. (iii) Evaluating the effectiveness of knowledge fragments at the sentence level and fusing them allows for precise control over the generation process of LLMs. We evaluate our GuideKG on small-scale LLMs and show that it outperforms all baselines on four widely-used commonsense reasoning benchmarks. Moreover, our experiments reveal that, with proper guidance, small-scale LLMs can exhibit exceptional performance in commonsense reasoning."}
{"Title": "BSharedRAG: Backbone Shared Retrieval-Augmented Generation for the E-commerce Domain", "Abstract": "Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) system is important in domains such as e-commerce, which has many long-tail entities and frequently updated information. Most existing works adopt separate modules for retrieval and generation, which may be suboptimal since the retrieval task and the generation task cannot benefit from each other to improve performance. We propose a novel Backbone Shared RAG framework (BSharedRAG). It first uses a domain-specific corpus to continually pre-train a base model as a domain-specific backbone model and then trains two plug-and-play Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA) modules based on the shared backbone to minimize retrieval and generation losses respectively. Experimental results indicate that our proposed BSharedRAG outperforms baseline models by 5{\\%} and 13{\\%} in Hit@3 upon two datasets in retrieval evaluation and by 23{\\%} in terms of BLEU-3 in generation evaluation. Our codes, models, and dataset are available at https://bsharedrag.github.io."}
{"Title": "NCPrompt: NSP-Based Prompt Learning and Contrastive Learning for Implicit Discourse Relation Recognition", "Abstract": "Implicit Discourse Relation Recognition (IDRR) is an important task to classify the discourse relation sense between argument pairs without an explicit connective. Recently, prompt learning methods have demonstrated success in IDRR. However, prior work primarily transform IDRR into a connective-cloze task based on the masked language model (MLM), which limits the predicted connective to one single token. Also, they fail to fully exploit critical semantic features shared among various forms of templates. In this paper, we propose NCPrompt, an NSP-based prompt learning and Contrastive learning method for IDRR. Specifically, we transform the IDRR task into a next sentence prediction (NSP) task, which can allow various-length answer connectives and enlarge the construction of the verbalizer for prompt-learning methods. Also, we notice that various prompt templates naturally constitute positive samples applied for self-supervised contrastive learning. And the usage of NSP naturally creates hard negative samples by introducing different candidate connectives between the same example. To our knowledge, we are the first to combine self-supervised contrastive learning with prompt learning to obtain high-quality semantic representations. Experiments on the PDTB 3.0 corpus have demonstrated the effectiveness and superiority of our model."}
{"Title": "SAFETY-J: Evaluating Safety with Critique", "Abstract": "The deployment of Large Language Models (LLMs) in content generation raises significant safety concerns, particularly regarding the transparency and interpretability of content evaluations. Current methods, primarily focused on binary safety classifications, lack mechanisms for detailed critique, limiting their utility for model improvement and user trust. To address these limitations, we introduce SAFETY-J, a bilingual generative safety evaluator for English and Chinese with critique-based judgment. SAFETY-J utilizes a robust training dataset that includes diverse dialogues and augmented query-response pairs to assess safety across various scenarios comprehensively. We establish an automated meta-evaluation benchmark that objectively assesses the quality of critiques with minimal human intervention, facilitating scalable and continuous improvement. Additionally, SAFETY-Jemploys an iterative preference learning technique to dynamically refine safety assessments based on meta-evaluations and critiques. Our evaluations demonstrate that SAFETY-J provides more nuanced and accurate safety evaluations, thereby enhancing both critique quality and predictive reliability in complex content scenarios. To facilitate further research and application, we have released SAFETY-J{'}s training protocols, datasets, and code at https://github.com/GAIR-NLP/Safety-J."}
{"Title": "Improving Demonstration Diversity by Human-Free Fusing for Text-to-SQL", "Abstract": "In-context learning with large language models (LLMs) is the current mainstream method for text-to-SQL. Previous studies have explored selecting relevant demonstrations from a human-labeled demonstration pool, but these methods lack diversity and incur high labeling costs. In this work, we address measuring and enhancing the diversity of the text-to-SQL demonstration pool. First, we introduce a diversity metric and present that the diversity of the existing labeling data can be further enhanced. Motivated by these findings, we propose Fused that iteratively fuses demonstrations to create a diverse demonstration pool based on human labeling or even from scratch with LLMs, reducing labeling costs. Fused achieves an average improvement of 2.1{\\%} based on existing labeling and 5.5{\\%} from scratch on several mainstream datasets, demonstrating its effectiveness."}
{"Title": "A Unified Framework and Dataset for Assessing Societal Bias in Vision-Language Models", "Abstract": "Vision-language models (VLMs) have gained widespread adoption in both industry and academia. In this study, we propose a unified framework for systematically evaluating gender, race, and age biases in VLMs with respect to professions. Our evaluation encompasses all supported inference modes of the recent VLMs, including image-to-text, text-to-text, text-to-image, and image-to-image. We create a synthetic, high-quality dataset comprising text and images that intentionally obscure gender, race, and age distinctions across various professions. The dataset includes action-based descriptions of each profession and serves as a benchmark for evaluating societal biases in vision-language models (VLMs). In our benchmarking of popular vision-language models (VLMs), we observe that different input-output modalities result in distinct bias magnitudes and directions. We hope our work will help guide future progress in improving VLMs to learn socially unbiased representations. We will release our data and code."}
{"Title": "Breaking the Boundaries: A Unified Framework for Chinese Named Entity Recognition Across Text and Speech", "Abstract": "In recent years, with the vast and rapidly increasing amounts of spoken and textual data, Named Entity Recognition (NER) tasks have evolved into three distinct categories, i.e., text-based NER (TNER), Speech NER (SNER) and Multimodal NER (MNER). However, existing approaches typically require designing separate models for each task, overlooking the potential connections between tasks and limiting the versatility of NER methods. To mitigate these limitations, we introduce a new task named Integrated Multimodal NER (IMNER) to break the boundaries between different modal NER tasks, enabling a unified implementation of them. To achieve this, we first design a unified data format for inputs from different modalities. Then, leveraging the pre-trained MMSpeech model as the backbone, we propose an **I**ntegrated **M**ultimod**a**l **Ge**neration Framework (**IMAGE**), formulating the Chinese IMNER task as an entity-aware text generation task. Experimental results demonstrate the feasibility of our proposed IMAGE framework in the IMNER task. Our work in integrated multimodal learning in advancing the performance of NER may set up a new direction for future research in the field. Our source code is available at https://github.com/NingJinzhong/IMAGE4IMNER."}
{"Title": "VGA: Vision GUI Assistant - Minimizing Hallucinations through Image-Centric Fine-Tuning", "Abstract": "Large Vision-Language Models (VLMs) have already been applied to the understanding of Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs) and have achieved notable results. However, existing VLMs often overly rely on internal text-based knowledge while neglecting visual inputs. This imbalance may lead models to produce answers that do not align with the visual content in GUI comprehension tasks. Such inaccuracies are termed as {`}hallucinations{'} where models generate incorrect or illogical responses upon visual verification against GUI elements. These errors result in misinterpretations and diminish the model{'}s practical utility in applied settings. To address these issues, we introduce VGA, a fine-tuned model designed for comprehensive GUI understanding. Our model aims to balance attention image and text to enhance interpretation and reduce hallucinations. We construct a Vision Question Answering (VQA) dataset of 63.8k high-quality examples with our propose *Referent Method*, focusing on response with visual content of images. We then design a two-stage fine-tuning method to enhance both the model{'}s accuracy to extract information from image content and alignment with human intent. Experiments show that our approach enhances the model{'}s ability to extract information from images and achieves state-of-the-art results in GUI understanding tasks. https://github.com/Linziyang1999/VGA-visual-GUI-assistant"}
{"Title": "Understanding the Therapeutic Relationship between Counselors and Clients in Online Text-based Counseling using LLMs", "Abstract": "Robust therapeutic relationships between counselors and clients are fundamental to counseling effectiveness. The assessment of therapeutic alliance is well-established in traditional face-to-face therapy but may not directly translate to text-based settings. With millions of individuals seeking support through online text-based counseling, understanding the relationship in such contexts is crucial.In this paper, we present an automatic approach using large language models (LLMs) to understand the development of therapeutic alliance in text-based counseling. We adapt a theoretically grounded framework specifically to the context of online text-based counseling and develop comprehensive guidelines for characterizing the alliance. We collect a comprehensive counseling dataset and conduct multiple expert evaluations on a subset based on this framework. Our LLM-based approach, combined with guidelines and simultaneous extraction of supportive evidence underlying its predictions, demonstrates effectiveness in identifying the therapeutic alliance. Through further LLM-based evaluations on additional conversations, our findings underscore the challenges counselors face in cultivating strong online relationships with clients. Furthermore, we demonstrate the potential of LLM-based feedback mechanisms to enhance counselors{'} ability to build relationships, supported by a small-scale proof-of-concept."}
{"Title": "Dynamic Planning for LLM-based Graphical User Interface Automation", "Abstract": "The advent of large language models (LLMs) has spurred considerable interest in advancing autonomous LLMs-based agents, particularly in intriguing applications within smartphone graphical user interfaces (GUIs). When presented with a task goal, these agents typically emulate human actions within a GUI environment until the task is completed. However, a key challenge lies in devising effective plans to guide action prediction in GUI tasks, though planning have been widely recognized as effective for decomposing complex tasks into a series of steps. Specifically, given the dynamic nature of environmental GUIs following action execution, it is crucial to dynamically adapt plans based on environmental feedback and action history.We show that the widely-used ReAct approach fails due to the excessively long historical dialogues. To address this challenge, we propose a novel approach called Dynamic Planning of Thoughts (D-PoT) for LLM-based GUI agents.D-PoT involves the dynamic adjustment of planning based on the environmental feedback and execution history. Experimental results reveal that the proposed D-PoT significantly surpassed the strong GPT-4V baseline by +12.7{\\%} (34.66{\\%} $\\rightarrow$ 47.36{\\%}) in accuracy. The analysis highlights the generality of dynamic planning in different backbone LLMs, as well as the benefits in mitigating hallucinations and adapting to unseen tasks. Code is available at https://github.com/sqzhang-lazy/D-PoT."}
{"Title": "SeRTS: Self-Rewarding Tree Search for Biomedical Retrieval-Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown great potential in the biomedical domain with the advancement of retrieval-augmented generation (RAG). However, existing retrieval-augmented approaches face challenges in addressing diverse queries and documents, particularly for medical knowledge queries, resulting in sub-optimal performance. To address these limitations, we propose a novel plug-and-play LLM-based retrieval method called Self-Rewarding Tree Search (SeRTS) based on Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) and a self-rewarding paradigm. By combining the reasoning capabilities of LLMs with the effectiveness of tree search, SeRTS boosts the zero-shot performance of retrieving high-quality and informative results for RAG. We further enhance retrieval performance by fine-tuning LLMs with Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) objectives using the trajectories collected by SeRTS as feedback. Controlled experiments using the BioASQ-QA dataset with GPT-3.5-Turbo and LLama2-7b demonstrate that our method significantly improves the performance of the BM25 retriever and surpasses the strong baseline of self-reflection in both efficiency and scalability. Moreover, SeRTS generates higher-quality feedback for PPO training than self-reflection. Our proposed method effectively adapts LLMs to document retrieval tasks, enhancing their ability to retrieve highly relevant documents for RAG in the context of medical knowledge queries. This work presents a significant step forward in leveraging LLMs for accurate and comprehensive biomedical question answering."}
{"Title": "Large Language Model-based Human-Agent Collaboration for Complex Task Solving", "Abstract": "In recent developments within the research community, the integration of Large Language Models (LLMs) in creating fully autonomous agents has garnered significant interest. Despite this, LLM-based agents frequently demonstrate notable shortcomings in adjusting to dynamic environments and fully grasping human needs. In this work, we introduce the problem of LLM-based human-agent collaboration for complex task-solving, exploring their synergistic potential. To tackle the problem, we propose a Reinforcement Learning-based Human-Agent Collaboration method, ReHAC, which trains a policy model designed to determine the most opportune stages for human intervention within the task-solving process. We conduct experiments under real and simulated human-agent collaboration scenarios. Experimental results demonstrate that the synergistic efforts of humans and LLM-based agents significantly improve performance in complex tasks, primarily through well-planned, limited human intervention. Datasets and code are available at: https://github.com/XueyangFeng/ReHAC/."}
{"Title": "MM-MATH: Advancing Multimodal Math Evaluation with Process Evaluation and Fine-grained Classification", "Abstract": "To advance the evaluation of multimodal math reasoning in large multimodal models (LMMs), this paper introduces a novel benchmark, MM-MATH. MM-MATH consists of 5,929 open-ended middle school math problems with visual contexts, with fine-grained classification across difficulty, grade level, and knowledge points. Unlike existing benchmarks relying on binary answer comparison, MM-MATH incorporates both outcome and process evaluations. Process evaluation employs LMM-as-a-judge to automatically analyze solution steps, identifying and categorizing errors into specific error types. Extensive evaluation of ten models on MM-MATH reveals significant challenges for existing LMMs, highlighting their limited utilization of visual information and struggles with higher-difficulty problems. The best-performing model achieves only 31{\\%} accuracy on MM-MATH, compared to 82{\\%} for humans. This highlights the challenging nature of our benchmark for existing models and the significant gap between the multimodal reasoning capabilities of current models and humans. Our process evaluation reveals that diagram misinterpretation is the most common error, accounting for more than half of the total error cases, underscoring the need for improved image comprehension in multimodal reasoning."}
{"Title": "LongAlign: A Recipe for Long Context Alignment of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Extending large language models to effectively handle long contexts requires instruction fine-tuning on input sequences of similar length. To address this, we present LongAlign{---}a recipe of the instruction data, training, and evaluation for long context alignment. First, we construct a long instruction-following dataset using Self-Instruct. To ensure the data diversity, it covers a broad range of tasks from various long context sources. Second, we adopt the packing and sorted batching strategies to speed up supervised fine-tuning on data with varied length distributions. Additionally, we develop a loss weighting method to balance the contribution to the loss across different sequences during packing training. Third, we introduce the LongBench-Chat benchmark for evaluating instruction-following capabilities on queries of 10k-100k in length. Experiments show that LongAlign outperforms existing recipes for LLMs in long context tasks by up to 30{\\%}, while also maintaining their proficiency in handling short, generic tasks."}
{"Title": "Let's Ask GNN: Empowering Large Language Model for Graph In-Context Learning", "Abstract": "Textual Attributed Graphs (TAGs) are crucial for modeling complex real-world systems, yet leveraging large language models (LLMs) for TAGs presents unique challenges due to the gap between sequential text processing and graph-structured data. We introduce AskGNN, a novel approach that bridges this gap by leveraging In-Context Learning (ICL) to integrate graph data and task-specific information into LLMs. AskGNN employs a Graph Neural Network (GNN)-powered structure-enhanced retriever to select labeled nodes across graphs, incorporating complex graph structures and their supervision signals. Our learning-to-retrieve algorithm optimizes the retriever to select example nodes that maximize LLM performance on graph. Experiments across three tasks and seven LLMs demonstrate AskGNN{'}s superior effectiveness in graph task performance, opening new avenues for applying LLMs to graph-structured data without extensive fine-tuning."}
{"Title": "CoXQL: A Dataset for Parsing Explanation Requests in Conversational XAI Systems", "Abstract": "Conversational explainable artificial intelligence (ConvXAI) systems based on large language models (LLMs) have garnered significant interest from the research community in natural language processing (NLP) and human-computer interaction (HCI). Such systems can provide answers to user questions about explanations in dialogues, have the potential to enhance users{'} comprehension and offer more information about the decision-making and generation processes of LLMs. Currently available ConvXAI systems are based on intent recognition rather than free chat, as this has been found to be more precise and reliable in identifying users{'} intentions. However, the recognition of intents still presents a challenge in the case of ConvXAI, since little training data exist and the domain is highly specific, as there is a broad range of XAI methods to map requests onto. In order to bridge this gap, we present CoXQL, the first dataset in the NLP domain for user intent recognition in ConvXAI, covering 31 intents, seven of which require filling multiple slots. Subsequently, we enhance an existing parsing approach by incorporating template validations, and conduct an evaluation of several LLMs on CoXQL using different parsing strategies. We conclude that the improved parsing approach (MP+) surpasses the performance of previous approaches. We also discover that intents with multiple slots remain highly challenging for LLMs."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Language Model Character Traits", "Abstract": "Language models (LMs) can exhibit human-like behaviour, but it is unclear how to describe this behaviour without undue anthropomorphism. We formalise a behaviourist view of LM character traits: qualities such as truthfulness, sycophancy, and coherent beliefs and intentions, which may manifest as consistent patterns of behaviour. Our theory is grounded in empirical demonstrations of LMs exhibiting different character traits, such as accurate and logically coherent beliefs and helpful and harmless intentions. We infer belief and intent from LM behaviour, finding their consistency varies with model size, fine-tuning, and prompting. In addition to characterising LM character traits, we evaluate how these traits develop over the course of an interaction. We find that traits such as truthfulness and harmfulness can be stationary, i.e., consistent over an interaction, in certain contexts but may be reflective in different contexts, meaning they mirror the LM{'}s behaviour in the preceding interaction. Our formalism enables us to describe LM behaviour precisely and without undue anthropomorphism."}
{"Title": "Self-Explore: Enhancing Mathematical Reasoning in Language Models with Fine-grained Rewards", "Abstract": "Training on large amounts of rationales (i.e., CoT Fine-tuning) has been found effective for improving mathematical reasoning of large language models (LLMs). However, acquiring human-authored solutions or augmenting rationales from proprietary models is costly and not scalable. In this paper, we study the problem of whether LLMs could self-improve mathematical reasoning capabilities. To this end, we propose Self-Explore, where the LLM is tasked to explore the first wrong step (i.e., the first pit) within the rationale and use such signals as fine-grained rewards for further improvement. On the GSM8K and MATH test set, Self-Explore achieves 11.57{\\%} and 2.89{\\%} improvement on average across three LLMs compared to supervised fine-tuning (SFT). Our code is available here]9."}
{"Title": "R-Judge: Benchmarking Safety Risk Awareness for LLM Agents", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have exhibited great potential in autonomously completing tasks across real-world applications. Despite this, these LLM agents introduce unexpected safety risks when operating in interactive environments. Instead of centering on the harmlessness of LLM-generated content in most prior studies, this work addresses the imperative need for benchmarking the behavioral safety of LLM agents within diverse environments. We introduce R-Judge, a benchmark crafted to evaluate the proficiency of LLMs in judging and identifying safety risks given agent interaction records. R-Judge comprises 569 records of multi-turn agent interaction, encompassing 27 key risk scenarios among 5 application categories and 10 risk types. It is of high-quality curation with annotated safety labels and risk descriptions. Evaluation of 11 LLMs on R-Judge shows considerable room for enhancing the risk awareness of LLMs: The best-performing model, GPT-4o, achieves 74.42{\\%} while no other models significantly exceed the random. Moreover, we reveal that risk awareness in open agent scenarios is a multi-dimensional capability involving knowledge and reasoning, thus challenging for LLMs. With further experiments, we find that fine-tuning on safety judgment significantly improve model performance while straightforward prompting mechanisms fail. R-Judge is publicly available at Annoymous."}
{"Title": "EAVE: Efficient Product Attribute Value Extraction via Lightweight Sparse-layer Interaction", "Abstract": "Product attribute value extraction involves identifying the specific values associated with various attributes from a product profile. While existing methods often prioritize the development of effective models to improve extraction performance, there has been limited emphasis on extraction efficiency. However, in real-world scenarios, products are typically associated with multiple attributes, necessitating multiple extractions to obtain all corresponding values. In this work, we propose an Efficient product Attribute Value Extraction (EAVE) approach via lightweight sparse-layer interaction. Specifically, we employ a heavy encoder to separately encode the product context and attribute. The resulting non-interacting heavy representations of the context can be cached and reused for all attributes. Additionally, we introduce a light encoder to jointly encode the context and the attribute, facilitating lightweight interactions between them. To enrich the interaction within the lightweight encoder, we design a sparse-layer interaction module to fuse the non-interacting heavy representation into the lightweight encoder. Comprehensive evaluation on two benchmarks demonstrate that our method achieves significant efficiency gains with neutral or marginal loss in performance when the context is long and number of attributes is large. Our code is available at: https://anonymous.4open.science/r/EAVE-EA18."}
{"Title": "MultiSkill: Evaluating Large Multimodal Models for Fine-grained Alignment Skills", "Abstract": "We propose MultiSkill, an evaluation protocol that assesses large multimodal models (LMMs) across multiple fine-grained skills for alignment with human values. Recent LMMs have shown various intriguing abilities, such as solving graph theory problems and explaining visual jokes. However, existing multimodal benchmarks have mainly focused on coarse-grained evaluation (e.g., accuracy), without considering the skill composition required by specific instructions. To this end, we present MultiSkill, designed to decompose coarse-level scoring to a fine-grained skill set-level scoring tailored to each instruction. MultiSkill defines five core vision-language capabilities and divides into 12 skills that are necessary to align with user instructions. For evaluation metrics on specific skills, we propose an LMM-based evaluator for open-ended outputs. Based on the diverse instructions collected from 66 datasets spanning 10 domains, we compare multiple representative open-source and proprietary LMMs and find a high correlation between model-based and human-based evaluations. Our experiments underscore the importance of fine-grained evaluation in providing a holistic view of model performance and enhancing the reliability of the evaluation."}
{"Title": "To Forget or Not? Towards Practical Knowledge Unlearning for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) trained on extensive corpora inevitably retain sensitive data, such as personal privacy information and copyrighted material. Recent advancements in knowledge unlearning involve updating LLM parameters to erase specific knowledge. However, current unlearning paradigms are mired in vague forgetting boundaries, often erasing knowledge indiscriminately. In this work, we introduce KnowUnDo, a benchmark containing copyrighted content and user privacy domains to evaluate if the unlearning process inadvertently erases essential knowledge. Our findings indicate that existing unlearning methods often suffer from excessive unlearning. To address this, we propose a simple yet effective method, MemFlex, which utilizes gradient information to precisely target and unlearn sensitive parameters. Experimental results show that MemFlex is superior to existing methods in both precise knowledge unlearning and general knowledge retaining of LLMs."}
{"Title": "EchoSight: Advancing Visual-Language Models with Wiki Knowledge", "Abstract": "Knowledge-based Visual Question Answering (KVQA) tasks require answering questions about images using extensive background knowledge. Despite significant advancements, generative models often struggle with these tasks due to the limited integration of external knowledge. In this paper, we introduce **EchoSight**, a novel multimodal Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) framework that enables large language models (LLMs) to answer visual questions requiring fine-grained encyclopedic knowledge. To strive for high-performing retrieval, EchoSight first searches wiki articles by using visual-only information, subsequently, these candidate articles are further reranked according to their relevance to the combined text-image query. This approach significantly improves the integration of multimodal knowledge, leading to enhanced retrieval outcomes and more accurate VQA responses. Our experimental results on the E-VQA and InfoSeek datasets demonstrate that EchoSight establishes new state-of-the-art results in knowledge-based VQA, achieving an accuracy of 41.8{\\%} on E-VQA and 31.3{\\%} on InfoSeek."}
{"Title": "Diversify, Rationalize, and Combine: Ensembling Multiple QA Strategies for Zero-shot Knowledge-based VQA", "Abstract": "Knowledge-based Visual Qustion-answering (K-VQA) often requires the use of background knowledge beyond the image. However, we discover that a single knowledge generation strategy is often insuffcient for all K-VQA questions. To this end, we propose Diversifcation, Evidence Truncation, and Combination for Knowledge-based Elucidation (DietCoke), which utilizes a bundle of complementary question-answering tactics and aggregates their answers using textual rationales. DietCoke comprises of three stages: diversifcation, rationalization, and ensemble. The diversification stage generates three distinctive decision contexts, each leading to its own answer candidate. The rationalization stage generates two rationales, the automatic rationale and the mechanistic rationale, for each answer candidate using decorrelated techniques. Finally, in the ensemble stage, an LLM informed by the rationales selects one answer from the three candidates. Experiments show that DietCoke significantly outperforms state-of-the-art LLM-based baselines by 2.8{\\%} on OK-VOA and 4.7{\\%} on A-OKVOA and that the strategies in the ensembles are highly complementary."}
{"Title": "Reconfidencing LLMs from the Grouping Loss Perspective", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs), such as GPT and LLaMA, are susceptible to generating hallucinated answers in a confident tone. While previous efforts to elicit and calibrate confidence scores have shown some success, they often overlook biases towards certain groups, such as specific nationalities. Existing calibration methods typically focus on average performance, failing to address this disparity. In our study, we demonstrate that the concept of grouping loss is an effective metric for understanding and correcting the heterogeneity in confidence levels. We introduce a novel evaluation dataset, derived from a knowledge base, specifically designed to assess the confidence scores of LLM responses across different groups. Our experimental results highlight significant variations in confidence, which are accurately captured by grouping loss. To tackle this issue, we propose a new method to calibrate the confidence scores of LLMs by considering different groups, a process we term \\textit{reconfidencing}. Our findings indicate that this approach effectively mitigates biases against minority groups, contributing to the development of fairer LLMs."}
{"Title": "Tokenization Falling Short: On Subword Robustness in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Language models typically tokenize raw text into sequences of subword identifiers from a predefined vocabulary, a process inherently sensitive to typographical errors, length variations, and largely oblivious to the internal structure of tokens{---}issues we term *the curse of tokenization*. In this study, we delve into these drawbacks and demonstrate that large language models (LLMs) remain susceptible to these problems. This study systematically investigates these challenges and their impact on LLMs through three critical research questions: (1) complex problem solving, (2) token structure probing, and (3) resilience to typographical variation. Our findings reveal that scaling model parameters can mitigate the issue of tokenization; however, LLMs still suffer from biases induced by typos and other text format variations. Our experiments show that subword regularization such as BPE-dropout can mitigate this issue. We release our evaluation code and data at https://github.com/FloatAI/TKEval."}
{"Title": "AC-EVAL: Evaluating Ancient Chinese Language Understanding in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Given the importance of ancient Chinese in capturing the essence of rich historical and cultural heritage, the rapid advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) necessitate benchmarks that can effectively evaluate their understanding of ancient contexts. To meet this need, we present AC-EVAL, an innovative benchmark designed to assess the advanced knowledge and reasoning capabilities of LLMs within the context of ancient Chinese. AC-EVAL is structured across three levels of difficulty reflecting different facets of language comprehension: general historical knowledge, short text understanding, and long text comprehension. The benchmark comprises 13 tasks, spanning historical facts, geography, social customs, art, philosophy, classical poetry and prose, providing a comprehensive assessment framework. Our extensive evaluation of top-performing LLMs, tailored for both English and Chinese, reveals a substantial potential for enhancing ancient text comprehension. By highlighting the strengths and weaknesses of LLMs, AC-EVAL aims to promote their development and application forward in the realms of ancient Chinese language education and scholarly research."}
{"Title": "MMAR: Multilingual and Multimodal Anaphora Resolution in Instructional Videos", "Abstract": "Multilingual anaphora resolution identifies referring expressions and implicit arguments in texts and links to antecedents that cover several languages. In the most challenging setting, cross-lingual anaphora resolution, training data, and test data are in different languages. As knowledge needs to be transferred across languages, this task is challenging, both in the multilingual and cross-lingual setting. We hypothesize that one way to alleviate some of the difficulty of the task is to include multimodal information in the form of images (i.e. frames extracted from instructional videos). Such visual inputs are by nature language agnostic, therefore cross- and multilingual anaphora resolution should benefit from visual information. In this paper, we provide the first multilingual and multimodal dataset annotated with anaphoric relations and present experimental results for end-to-end multimodal and multilingual anaphora resolution. Given gold mentions, multimodal features improve anaphora resolution results by {\\textasciitilde}10 {\\%} for unseen languages."}
{"Title": "Dealing with Controversy: An Emotion and Coping Strategy Corpus Based on Role Playing", "Abstract": "There is a mismatch between psychological and computational studies on emotions. Psychological research aims at explaining and documenting internal mechanisms of these phenomena, while computational work often simplifies them into labels. Many emotion fundamentals remain under-explored in natural language processing, particularly how emotions develop and how people cope with them. To help reduce this gap, we follow theories on coping, and treat emotions as strategies to cope with salient situations (i.e., how people deal with emotion-eliciting events). This approach allows us to investigate the link between emotions and behavior, which also emerges in language. We introduce the task of coping identification, together with a corpus to do so, constructed via role-playing. We find that coping strategies realize in text even though they are challenging to recognize, both for humans and automatic systems trained and prompted on the same task. We thus open up a promising research direction to enhance the capability of models to better capture emotion mechanisms from text."}
{"Title": "MATE: Meet At The Embedding - Connecting Images with Long Texts", "Abstract": "While advancements in Vision Language Models (VLMs) have significantly improved the alignment of visual and textual data, these models primarily focus on aligning images with short descriptive captions. This focus limits their ability to handle complex text interactions, particularly with longer texts such as lengthy captions or documents, which have not been extensively explored yet. In this paper, we introduce Meet At The Embedding (MATE), a novel approach that combines the capabilities of VLMs with Large Language Models (LLMs) to overcome this challenge without the need for additional image-long text pairs. Specifically, we replace the text encoder of the VLM with a pretrained LLM-based encoder that excels in understanding long texts. To bridge the gap between VLM and LLM, MATE incorporates a projection module that is trained in a multi-stage manner. It starts by aligning the embeddings from the VLM text encoder with those from the LLM using extensive text pairs. This module is then employed to seamlessly align image embeddings closely with LLM embeddings. We propose two new cross-modal retrieval benchmarks to assess the task of connecting images with long texts (lengthy captions / documents). Extensive experimental results demonstrate that MATE effectively connects images with long texts, uncovering diverse semantic relationships."}
{"Title": "Mixed Distillation Helps Smaller Language Models Reason Better", "Abstract": "As large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive multiple step-by-step reasoning capabilities in recent natural language processing (NLP) reasoning tasks, many studies are interested in distilling reasoning abilities into smaller language models (SLMs) via fine-tuning. Previous distillation methods usually utilize the capabilities of LLMs to generate chain-of-thought (CoT) samples to teach SLMs. However, this distillation approach performs poorly in certain scenarios due to the limitations of CoT. In this work, we introduce a novel \\textbf{Mixed Distillation} (MD) framework, distilling multiple step-by-step reasoning abilities into SLMs. First, we leverage LLMs to generate multiple step-by-step reasoning rationales by sampling automatically. Then, we create high-quality, well-balanced mixed thought data and design a novel multi-task loss to help SLMs better learn and adaptively activate multiple step-by-step reasoning. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that MD enhances both single-path (using either CoT or PoT) and multi-path (using both CoT and PoT) reasoning abilities of SLMs during inference across reasoning tasks. Notably, a single model generated by MD exceeds the comprehensive performance of an ensemble of two individual CoT and PoT distilled models. Mistral-7B using MD can achieve remarkable improvements of 87.5{\\%}, 74.0{\\%} and 77.1{\\%} on SVAMP, GSM8K and ASDIV, respectively, outperforming the teacher model, GPT-3.5-Turbo. We hope our work provides insight into SLMs{'} multiple step-by-step reasoning abilities."}
{"Title": "The SIFo Benchmark: Investigating the Sequential Instruction Following Ability of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Following multiple instructions is a crucial ability for large language models (LLMs). Evaluating this ability comes with significant challenges: (i) limited coherence between multiple instructions, (ii) positional bias where the order of instructions affects model performance, and (iii) a lack of objectively verifiable tasks. To address these issues, we introduce a benchmark designed to evaluate models{'} abilities to follow multiple instructions through sequential instruction following (SIFo) tasks. In SIFo, the successful completion of multiple instructions is verifiable by examining only the final instruction. Our benchmark evaluates instruction following using four tasks (text modification, question answering, mathematics, and security rule following), each assessing different aspects of sequential instruction following. Our evaluation of popular LLMs, both closed-source and open-source, shows that more recent and larger models significantly outperform their older and smaller counterparts on the SIFo tasks, validating the benchmark{'}s effectiveness. All models struggle with following sequences of instructions, hinting at an important lack of robustness of today{'}s language models."}
{"Title": "Optimizing Instruction Synthesis: Effective Exploration of Evolutionary Space with Tree Search", "Abstract": "Instruction tuning is a crucial technique for aligning language models with humans{'} actual goals in the real world. Extensive research has highlighted the quality of instruction data is essential for the success of this alignment. However, creating high-quality data manually is labor-intensive and time-consuming, which leads researchers to explore using LLMs to synthesize data. Recent studies have focused on using a stronger LLM to iteratively enhance existing instruction data, showing promising results. Nevertheless, previous work often lacks control over the evolution direction, resulting in high uncertainty in the data synthesis process and low-quality instructions. In this paper, we introduce a general and scalable framework, IDEA-MCTS (Instruction Data Enhancement using Monte Carlo Tree Search), a scalable framework for efficiently synthesizing instructions. With tree search and evaluation models, it can efficiently guide each instruction to evolve into a high-quality form, aiding in instruction fine-tuning. Experimental results show that IDEA-MCTS significantly enhances the seed instruction data, raising the average evaluation scores of quality, diversity, and complexity from 2.19 to 3.81. Furthermore, in open-domain benchmarks, experimental results show that IDEA-MCTS improves the accuracy of real-world instruction-following skills in LLMs by an average of 5{\\%} in low-resource settings."}
{"Title": "Suri: Multi-constraint Instruction Following in Long-form Text Generation", "Abstract": "Existing research on instruction following largely focuses on tasks with simple instructions and short responses. In this work, we explore multi-constraint instruction following for generating long-form text. We create Suri, a dataset with 20K human-written long-form texts paired with LLM-generated backtranslated instructions that contain multiple complex constraints. Because of prohibitive challenges associated with collecting human preference judgments on long-form texts, preference-tuning algorithms such as DPO are infeasible in our setting; thus, we propose Instructional ORPO (I-ORPO), an alignment method based on the ORPO algorithm. Instead of receiving negative feedback from dispreferred responses, I-ORPO obtains negative feedback from synthetically corrupted instructions generated by an LLM. Using Suri, we perform supervised and I-ORPO fine-tuning on Mistral-7b-Instruct-v0.2. The resulting models, Suri-SFT and Suri-I-ORPO, generate significantly longer texts (5K tokens) than base models without significant quality deterioration. Our human evaluation shows that while both SFT and I-ORPO models satisfy most constraints, Suri-I-ORPO generations are generally preferred for their coherent and informative incorporation of the constraints."}
{"Title": "Augmenting Black-box LLMs with Medical Textbooks for Biomedical Question Answering", "Abstract": "Large-scale language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT have demonstrated impressive abilities in generating responses based on human instructions. However, their use in the medical field can be challenging due to their lack of specific, in-depth knowledge. In this study, we present a system called LLMs Augmented with Medical Textbooks (LLM-AMT) designed to enhance the proficiency of LLMs in specialized domains. LLM-AMT integrates authoritative medical textbooks into the LLMs{'} framework using plug-and-play modules. These modules include a Query Augmenter, a Hybrid Textbook Retriever, and a Knowledge Self-Refiner. Together, they incorporate authoritative medical knowledge. Additionally, an \\textit{LLM Reader} aids in contextual understanding. Our experimental results on three medical QA tasks demonstrate that LLM-AMT significantly improves response quality, with accuracy gains ranging from 11.6{\\%} to 16.6{\\%}. Notably, with GPT-4-Turbo as the base model, LLM-AMT outperforms the specialized Med-PaLM 2 model pre-trained on a massive amount of medical corpus by 2-3{\\%}. We found that despite being 100 smaller in size, medical textbooks as a retrieval corpus are proven to be a more effective knowledge database than Wikipedia in the medical domain, boosting performance by 7.8{\\%}-13.7{\\%}."}
{"Title": "Exploring Multilingual Concepts of Human Values in Large Language Models: Is Value Alignment Consistent, Transferable and Controllable across Languages?", "Abstract": "Prior research has revealed that certain abstract concepts are linearly represented as directions in the representation space of LLMs, predominantly centered around English. In this paper, we extend this investigation to a multilingual context, with a specific focus on human values-related concepts (i.e., value concepts) due to their significance for AI safety. Through our comprehensive exploration covering 7 types of human values, 16 languages and 3 LLM series with distinct multilinguality (e.g., monolingual, bilingual and multilingual), we first empirically confirm the presence of value concepts within LLMs in a multilingual format. Further analysis on the cross-lingual characteristics of these concepts reveals 3 traits arising from language resource disparities: cross-lingual inconsistency, distorted linguistic relationships, and unidirectional cross-lingual transfer between high- and low-resource languages, all in terms of value concepts. Moreover, we validate the feasibility of cross-lingual control over value alignment capabilities of LLMs, leveraging the dominant language as a source language. Ultimately, recognizing the significant impact of LLMs{'} multilinguality on our results, we consolidate our findings and provide prudent suggestions on the composition of multilingual data for LLMs pre-training."}
{"Title": "PaCoST: Paired Confidence Significance Testing for Benchmark Contamination Detection in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are known to be trained on vast amounts of data, which may unintentionally or intentionally include data from commonly used benchmarks. This inclusion can lead to cheatingly high scores on model leaderboards, yet result in disappointing performance in real-world applications. To address this benchmark contamination problem, we first propose a set of requirements that practical contamination detection methods should follow. Following these proposed requirements, we introduce PaCoST, a Paired Confidence Significance Testing to effectively detect benchmark contamination in LLMs. Our method constructs a counterpart for each piece of data with the same distribution, and performs statistical analysis of the corresponding confidence to test whether the model is significantly more confident under the original benchmark. We validate the effectiveness of PaCoST and apply it on popular open-source models and benchmarks. We find that almost all models and benchmarks we tested are suspected contaminated more or less. We finally call for new LLM evaluation methods."}
{"Title": "UrbanLLM: Autonomous Urban Activity Planning and Management with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Location-based services play an critical role in improving the quality of our daily lives. Despite the proliferation of numerous specialized AI models within spatio-temporal context of location-based services, these models struggle to autonomously tackle problems regarding complex urban planing and management. To bridge this gap, we introduce UrbanLLM, a fine-tuned large language model (LLM) designed to tackle diverse problems in urban scenarios. UrbanLLM functions as a problem- solver by decomposing urban-related queries into manageable sub-tasks, identifying suitable spatio-temporal AI models for each sub-task, and generating comprehensive responses to the given queries. Our experimental results indicate that UrbanLLM significantly outperforms other established LLMs, such as Llama and the GPT series, in handling problems concerning complex urban activity planning and management. UrbanLLM exhibits considerable potential in enhancing the effectiveness of solving problems in urban scenarios, reducing the workload and reliance for human experts."}
{"Title": "Breaking the Ceiling of the LLM Community by Treating Token Generation as a Classification for Ensembling", "Abstract": "Ensembling multiple models has always been an effective approach to push the limits of existing performance and is widely used in classification tasks by simply averaging the classification probability vectors from multiple classifiers to achieve better accuracy. However, in the thriving open-source Large Language Model (LLM) community, ensembling methods are rare and typically limited to ensembling the full-text outputs of LLMs, such as selecting the best output using a ranker, which leads to underutilization of token-level probability information. In this paper, we treat the **G**eneration of each token by LLMs **a**s a **C**lassification (**GaC**) for ensembling. This approach fully exploits the probability information at each generation step and better prevents LLMs from producing early incorrect tokens that lead to snowballing errors. In experiments, we ensemble state-of-the-art LLMs on several benchmarks, including exams, mathematics and reasoning, and observe that our method breaks the existing community performance ceiling. Furthermore, we observed that most of the tokens in the answer are simple and do not affect the correctness of the final answer. Therefore, we also experimented with ensembling only key tokens, and the results showed better performance with lower latency across benchmarks."}
{"Title": "Eliciting Instruction-tuned Code Language Models' Capabilities to Utilize Auxiliary Function for Code Generation", "Abstract": "We study the code generation behavior of instruction-tuned models built on top of code pre-trained language models when they could access an auxiliary function to implement a function. We design several ways to provide auxiliary functions to the models by adding them to the query or providing a response prefix to incorporate the ability to utilize auxiliary functions with the instruction-following capability. Our experimental results show the effectiveness of combining the base models{'} auxiliary function utilization ability with the instruction following ability. In particular, the performance of adopting our approaches with the open-sourced language models surpasses that of the recent powerful language models, i.e., gpt-4o."}
{"Title": "AHP-Powered LLM Reasoning for Multi-Criteria Evaluation of Open-Ended Responses", "Abstract": "Question answering (QA) tasks have been extensively studied in the field of natural language processing (NLP). Answers to open-ended questions are highly diverse and difficult to quantify, and cannot be simply evaluated as correct or incorrect, unlike close-ended questions with definitive answers. While large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated strong capabilities across various tasks, they exhibit relatively weaker performance in evaluating answers to open-ended questions. In this study, we propose a method that leverages LLMs and the analytic hierarchy process (AHP) to assess answers to open-ended questions. We utilized LLMs to generate multiple evaluation criteria for a question. Subsequently, answers were subjected to pairwise comparisons under each criterion with LLMs, and scores for each answer were calculated in the AHP. We conducted experiments on four datasets using both ChatGPT-3.5-turbo and GPT-4. Our results indicate that our approach more closely aligns with human judgment compared to the four baselines. Additionally, we explored the impact of the number of criteria, variations in models, and differences in datasets on the results."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Fine-Grained Image Classifications via Cascaded Vision Language Models", "Abstract": "Fine-grained image classification, especially in zero-/few-shot scenarios, poses a considerable challenge for vision-language models (VLMs) like CLIP, which often struggle to differentiate between semantically similar classes due to insufficient supervision for fine-grained tasks. On the other hand, Large Vision Language Models (LVLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in tasks like Visual Question Answering (VQA) but remain underexplored in the context of fine-grained image classification. This paper presents CascadeVLM, a novel framework that harnesses the complementary strengths of both CLIP-like and LVLMs VLMs to tackle these challenges. Using granular knowledge effectively in LVLMs and integrating a cascading approach, CascadeVLM dynamically allocates samples using an entropy threshold, balancing computational efficiency with classification accuracy. Experiments on multiple fine-grained datasets, particularly the Stanford Cars dataset, show that CascadeVLM outperforms existing models, achieving 92{\\%} accuracy. Our results highlight the potential of combining VLM and LVLM for robust, efficient and interpretable fine-grained image classification, offering new insights into their synergy."}
{"Title": "Exploring the Best Practices of Query Expansion with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) are foundational in language technologies, particularly in information retrieval (IR). In this paper, we thoroughly explore the best practice of leveraging LLMs for query expansion. To this end, we introduce a training-free, straightforward yet effective framework called Multi-Text Generation Integration (MuGI). This approach leverages LLMs to generate multiple pseudo-references, which are then integrated with the original queries to enhance both sparse and dense retrieval methods. Additionally, we introduce a retrieval pipeline based on MuGI, which combines the strengths of sparse and dense retrievers to achieve superior performance without the need for costly pre-indexing. Our empirical findings reveal that: (1) Increasing the number of samples from LLMs benefits IR systems; (2) A balance between the query and pseudo-documents, and an effective integration strategy, is critical for high performance; (3) Contextual information from LLMs is essential, even boost a 23M model to outperform a 7B baseline model; (4) Pseudo relevance feedback can further calibrate queries for improved performance; and (5) Query expansion is widely applicable and versatile, consistently enhancing models ranging from 23M to 7B parameters. Our code and all generated references are made available at https://github.com/lezhang7/Retrieval{\\_}MuGI."}
{"Title": "Chain-of-Rewrite: Aligning Question and Documents for Open-Domain Question Answering", "Abstract": "Despite the advancements made with the retrieve-then-read pipeline on open-domain question answering task, current methods still face challenges stemming from term mismatch and limited interaction between information retrieval systems and large language models. To mitigate these issues, we propose the Chain-of-Rewrite method, which leverages the guidance and feedback gained from the analysis to provide faithful and consistent extensions for effective question answering. Through a two-step rewriting process comprising Semantic Analysis and Semantic Augmentation, the Chain-of-Rewrite method effectively bridges the gap between the user question and relevant documents. By incorporating feedback from the rewriting process, our method can self-correct the retrieval and reading process to further improve the performance. Experiments on four open-domain question answering datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our system under zero-shot settings."}
{"Title": "MGCL: Multi-Granularity Clue Learning for Emotion-Cause Pair Extraction via Cross-Grained Knowledge Distillation", "Abstract": "Emotion-cause pair extraction (ECPE) aims to identify emotion clauses and their corresponding cause clauses within a document. Traditional methods often rely on coarse-grained clause-level annotations, which can overlook valuable fine-grained clues. To address this issue, we propose Multi-Granularity Clue Learning (MGCL), a novel approach designed to capture fine-grained emotion-cause clues from a weakly-supervised perspective efficiently. In MGCL, a teacher model is leveraged to give sub-clause clues without needing fine-grained annotated labels and guides a student model to identify clause-level emotion-cause pairs. Furthermore, we explore domain-invariant extra-clause clues under the teacher model{'}s advice to enhance the learning process. Experimental results on the benchmark dataset demonstrate that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance while offering improved interpretability."}
{"Title": "Efficient Data Generation for Source-grounded Information-seeking Dialogs: A Use Case for Meeting Transcripts", "Abstract": "Automating data generation with Large Language Models (LLMs) has become increasingly popular. In this work, we investigate the feasibility and effectiveness of LLM-based data generation in the challenging setting of source-grounded information-seeking dialogs, with response attribution, over long documents. Our source texts consist of long and noisy meeting transcripts, adding to the task complexity. Since automating attribution remains difficult, we propose a semi-automatic approach: dialog queries and responses are generated with LLMs, followed by human verification and identification of attribution spans. Using this approach, we created MISeD {--} Meeting Information Seeking Dialogs dataset {--} a dataset of information-seeking dialogs focused on meeting transcripts. Models finetuned with MISeD demonstrate superior performance compared to off-the-shelf models, even those of larger size. Finetuning on MISeD gives comparable response generation quality to finetuning on fully manual data, while improving attribution quality and reducing time and effort."}
{"Title": "Visual Question Decomposition on Multimodal Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Question decomposition has emerged as an effective strategy for prompting Large Language Models (LLMs) to answer complex questions. However, while existing methods primarily focus on unimodal language models, the question decomposition capability of Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) has yet to be explored. To this end, this paper explores visual question decomposition on MLLMs. Specifically, we introduce a systematic evaluation framework including a dataset and several evaluation criteria to assess the quality of the decomposed sub-questions, revealing that existing MLLMs struggle to produce high-quality sub-questions. To address this limitation, we propose a specific finetuning dataset, DecoVQA+, for enhancing the model{'}s question decomposition capability. Aiming at enabling models to perform appropriate selective decomposition, we propose an efficient finetuning pipeline. The finetuning pipeline consists of our proposed dataset and a training objective for selective decomposition. Finetuned MLLMs demonstrate significant improvements in the quality of sub-questions and the policy of selective question decomposition. Additionally, the models also achieve higher accuracy with selective decomposition on VQA benchmark datasets."}
{"Title": "ProSA: Assessing and Understanding the Prompt Sensitivity of LLMs", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive capabilities across various tasks, but their performance is highly sensitive to the prompts utilized. This variability poses challenges for accurate assessment and user satisfaction. Current research frequently overlooks instance-level prompt variations and their implications on subjective evaluations. To address these shortcomings, we introduce \\textbf{ProSA}, a framework designed to evaluate and comprehend prompt sensitivity in LLMs. ProSA incorporates a novel sensitivity metric, PromptSensiScore, and leverages decoding confidence to elucidate underlying mechanisms. Our extensive study, spanning multiple tasks, uncovers that prompt sensitivity fluctuates across datasets and models, with larger models exhibiting enhanced robustness. We observe that few-shot examples can alleviate this sensitivity issue, and subjective evaluations are also susceptible to prompt sensitivities, particularly in complex, reasoning-oriented tasks. Furthermore, our findings indicate that higher model confidence correlates with increased prompt robustness. We believe this work will serve as a helpful tool in studying prompt sensitivity of LLMs. The project is released at: \\url{https://github.com/open-compass/ProSA}."}
{"Title": "Layer-wise Importance Matters: Less Memory for Better Performance in Parameter-efficient Fine-tuning of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) methods have gained significant popularity for adapting pre-trained Large Language Models (LLMs) to downstream tasks, primarily due to their potential to significantly reduce memory and computational overheads. However, a common limitation in most PEFT approaches is their application of a uniform architectural design across all layers. This uniformity involves identical trainable modules and ignores the varying importance of each layer, leading to sub-optimal fine-tuning results. To overcome the above limitation and obtain better performance, we develop a novel approach, Importance-aware Sparse Tuning (IST), to fully utilize the inherent sparsity and select the most important subset of full layers with effective layer-wise importance scoring. The proposed IST is a versatile and plug-and-play technique compatible with various PEFT methods that operate on a per-layer basis. By leveraging the estimated importance scores, IST dynamically updates these selected layers in PEFT modules, leading to reduced memory demands. We further provide theoretical proof of convergence and empirical evidence of superior performance to demonstrate the advantages of IST over uniform updating strategies. Extensive experiments on a range of LLMs, PEFTs, and downstream tasks substantiate the effectiveness of our proposed method, showcasing IST{'}s capacity to enhance existing layer-based PEFT methods. Our code is available at https://github.com/Kaiseem/IST"}
{"Title": "Abstraction-of-Thought Makes Language Models Better Reasoners", "Abstract": "Abstract reasoning, the ability to reason from the abstract essence of a problem, serves as a key to generalization in human reasoning. However, eliciting language models to perform reasoning with abstraction remains unexplored. This paper seeks to bridge this gap by introducing a novel structured reasoning format called Abstraction-of-Thought (AoT). The uniqueness of AoT lies in its explicit requirement for varying levels of abstraction within the reasoning process. This approach could elicit language models to first contemplate on the abstract level before incorporating concrete details, which is overlooked by the prevailing step-by-step Chain-of-Thought (CoT) method. To align models with the AoT format, we present AoT Collection, a generic finetuning dataset consisting of 348k high-quality samples with AoT reasoning processes, collected via an automated and scalable pipeline. We finetune a wide range of language models with AoT Collection and conduct extensive evaluations on 23 unseen tasks from the challenging benchmark Big-Bench Hard. Experimental results indicate that models aligned to AoT reasoning format substantially outperform those aligned to CoT in many reasoning tasks."}
{"Title": "LLMs Cannot (Yet) Match the Specificity and Simplicity of Online Communities in Long Form Question Answering", "Abstract": "Retail investing is on the rise, and a growing number of users is relying on online finance communities to educate themselves.However, recent years have positioned Large Language Models (LLMs) as powerful question answering (QA) tools, shifting users away from interacting in communities towards discourse with AI-driven conversational interfaces.These AI tools are currently limited by the availability of labelled data containing domain-specific financial knowledge.Therefore, in this work, we curate a QA preference dataset SocialFinanceQA for fine-tuning and aligning LLMs, extracted from more than 7.4 million submissions and 82 million comments from 2008 to 2022 in Reddit{'}s 15 largest finance communities. Additionally, we propose a novel framework called SocialQA-Eval as a generally-applicable method to evaluate generated QA responses.We evaluate various LLMs fine-tuned on this dataset, using traditional metrics, LLM-based evaluation, and human annotation. Our results demonstrate the value of high-quality Reddit data, with even state-of-the-art LLMs improving on producing simpler and more specific responses."}
{"Title": "Automated Tone Transcription and Clustering with Tone2Vec", "Abstract": "Lexical tones play a crucial role in Sino-Tibetan languages. However, current phonetic fieldwork relies on manual effort, resulting in substantial time and financial costs. This is especially challenging for the numerous endangered languages that are rapidly disappearing, often compounded by limited funding. In this paper, we introduce pitch-based similarity representations for tone transcription, named Tone2Vec. Experiments on dialect clustering and variance show that Tone2Vec effectively captures fine-grained tone variation. Utilizing Tone2Vec, we develop the first automatic approach for tone transcription and clustering by presenting a novel representation transformation for transcriptions. Additionally, these algorithms are systematically integrated into an open-sourced and easy-to-use package, ToneLab, which facilitates automated fieldwork and cross-regional, cross-lexical analysis for tonal languages. Extensive experiments were conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of our methods."}
{"Title": "Multi-dimensional Evaluation of Empathetic Dialogue Responses", "Abstract": "Empathy is critical for effective and satisfactory conversational communication. Prior efforts to measure conversational empathy mostly focus on expressed communicative intents{---}that is, the way empathy is expressed. Yet, these works ignore the fact that conversation is also a collaboration involving both speakers and listeners. In contrast, we propose a multi-dimensional empathy evaluation framework to measure both expressed intents from the speaker{'}s perspective and perceived empathy from the listener{'}s perspective. We apply our analytical framework to examine internal customer-service dialogues. We find the two dimensions (expressed intent types and perceived empathy) are interconnected, while perceived empathy has high correlations with dialogue satisfaction levels.To reduce the annotation cost, we explore different options to automatically measure conversational empathy: prompting LLMs and training language model-based classifiers. Our experiments show that prompting methods with even popular models like GPT-4 and Flan family models perform relatively poorly on both public and our internal datasets. In contrast, instruction-finetuned classifiers based on FlanT5 family models outperform prior works and competitive baselines. We conduct a detailed ablation study to give more insights into instruction finetuning method{'}s strong performance."}
{"Title": "Translation of Multifaceted Data without Re-Training of Machine Translation Systems", "Abstract": "Translating major language resources to build minor language resources becomes a widely-used approach. Particularly in translating complex data points composed of multiple components, it is common to translate each component separately. However, we argue that this practice often overlooks the interrelation between components within the same data point. To address this limitation, we propose a novel MT pipeline that considers the intra-data relation. in implementing MT for training data. In our MT pipeline, all the components in a data point are concatenated to form a single translation sequence and subsequently reconstructed to the data components after translation. We introduce a Catalyst Statement (CS) to enhance the intra-data relation, and Indicator Token (IT) to assist the decomposition of a translated sequence into its respective data components. Through our approach, we have achieved a considerable improvement in translation quality itself, along with its effectiveness as training data. Compared with the conventional approach that translates each data component separately, our method yields better training data that enhances the performance of the trained model by 2.690 points for the web page ranking (WPR) task, and 0.845 for the question generation (QG) task in the XGLUE benchmark."}
{"Title": "Reward Difference Optimization For Sample Reweighting In Offline RLHF", "Abstract": "With the wide deployment of Large Language Models (LLMs), aligning LLMs with human values becomes increasingly important. Although Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) proves effective, it is complicated and highly resource-intensive. As such, offline RLHF has been introduced as an alternative solution, which directly optimizes LLMs with ranking losses on a fixed preference dataset. Current offline RLHF only captures the ordering relationship between responses, overlooking the crucial aspect of {``}how much{''} one is preferred over the others. To address this issue, we propose a simple yet effective solution based on reward difference prediction. Specifically, we introduce reward difference coefficients to reweigh sample pairs in offline RLHF. We then propose a difference model that considers rich interactions between a pair of responses for predicting these difference coefficients. Experiments with 7B LLMs on the HH and TL;DR dataset verify the effectiveness of our method in both automatic metrics and human evaluation, highlighting its potential for aligning LLMs with human values."}
{"Title": "AgentBank: Towards Generalized LLM Agents via Fine-Tuning on 50000+ Interaction Trajectories", "Abstract": "Fine-tuning on agent-environment interaction trajectory data holds significant promise for surfacing generalized agent capabilities in open-source large language models (LLMs). In this work, we introduce AgentBank, by far the largest trajectory tuning data collection featuring more than 50k diverse high-quality interaction trajectories which comprises 16 tasks covering five distinct agent skill dimensions. Leveraging a novel annotation pipeline, we are able to scale the annotated trajectories and generate a trajectory dataset with minimized difficulty bias. Furthermore, we fine-tune LLMs on AgentBank to get a series of agent models, Samoyed. Our comparative experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of scaling the interaction trajectory data to acquire generalized agent capabilities. Additional studies also reveal some key observations regarding trajectory tuning and agent skill generalization."}
{"Title": "Are LLMs Aware that Some Questions are not Open-ended?", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown the impressive capability of answering questions in a wide range of scenarios. However, when LLMs face different types of questions, it is worth exploring whether LLMs are aware that some questions have limited answers and need to respond more deterministically but some do not. We refer to this as question awareness of LLMs. The lack of question awareness in LLMs leads to two phenomena that LLMs are: (1) too casual to answer non-open-ended questions or (2) too boring to answer open-ended questions. In this paper, we first evaluate the question awareness in LLMs. The experimental results show that LLMs have the issues of lacking awareness of questions in certain domains, e.g. factual knowledge, resulting in hallucinations during the generation. To mitigate these, we propose a method called Question Awareness Temperature Sampling (QuATS). This method enhances the question awareness of LLMs by adaptively adjusting the output distributions based on question features. The automatic adjustment in QuATS eliminates the need for manual temperature tuning in text generation and consistently improves model performance in various benchmarks."}
{"Title": "Conditional Language Policy: A General Framework For Steerable Multi-Objective Finetuning", "Abstract": "Reward-based finetuning is crucial for aligning language policies with intended behaviors (*e.g.*, creativity and safety). A key challenge is to develop steerable language models that trade-off multiple (conflicting) objectives in a flexible and efficient manner. This paper presents Conditional Language Policy (CLP), a general framework for finetuning language models on multiple objectives. Building on techniques from multi-task training and parameter-efficient finetuning, CLP learn steerable models that effectively trade-off conflicting objectives at *inference time*. Notably, this does not require training or maintaining multiple models to achieve different trade-offs between the objectives. Through extensive experiments and ablations on two summarization datasets, we show that CLP learns steerable language models that outperform and Pareto-dominate the existing approaches for multi-objective"}
{"Title": "DALK: Dynamic Co-Augmentation of LLMs and KG to answer Alzheimer's Disease Questions with Scientific Literature", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have achieved promising performances across various applications. Nonetheless, the ongoing challenge of integrating long-tail knowledge continues to impede the seamless adoption of LLMs in specialized domains. In this work, we introduce DALK, a.k.a. Dynamic Co-Augmentation of LLMs and KG, to address this limitation and demonstrate its ability on studying Alzheimer{'}s Disease (AD), a specialized sub-field in biomedicine and a global health priority. With a synergized framework of LLM and KG mutually enhancing each other, we first leverage LLM to construct an evolving AD-specific knowledge graph (KG) sourced from AD-related scientific literature, and then we utilize a coarse-to-fine sampling method with a novel self-aware knowledge retrieval approach to select appropriate knowledge from the KG to augment LLM inference capabilities. The experimental results, conducted on our constructed AD question answering (ADQA) benchmark, underscore the efficacy of DALK. Additionally, we perform a series of detailed analyses that can offer valuable insights and guidelines for the emerging topic of mutually enhancing KG and LLM."}
{"Title": "Can AI Relate: Testing Large Language Model Response for Mental Health Support", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are already being piloted for clinical use in hospital systems like NYU Langone, Dana-Farber and the NHS. A proposed deployment use case is psychotherapy, where a LLM-powered chatbot can treat a patient undergoing a mental health crisis. Deployment of LLMs for mental health response could hypothetically broaden access to psychotherapy and provide new possibilities for personalizing care. However, recent high-profile failures, like damaging dieting advice offered by the Tessa chatbot to patients with eating disorders, have led to doubt about their reliability in high-stakes and safety-critical settings.In this work, we develop an evaluation framework for determining whether LLM response is a viable and ethical path forward for the automation of mental health treatment. Our framework measures equity in empathy and adherence of LLM responses to motivational interviewing theory. Using human evaluation with trained clinicians and automatic quality-of-care metrics grounded in psychology research, we compare the responses provided by peer-to-peer responders to those provided by a state-of-the-art LLM.We show that LLMs like GPT-4 use implicit and explicit cues to infer patient demographics like race. We then show that there are statistically significant discrepancies between patient subgroups: Responses to Black posters consistently have lower empathy than for any other demographic group (2{\\%}-13{\\%} lower than the control group). Promisingly, we do find that the manner in which responses are generated significantly impacts the quality of the response. We conclude by proposing safety guidelines for the potential deployment of LLMs for mental health response."}
{"Title": "Towards Robust Extractive Question Answering Models: Rethinking the Training Methodology", "Abstract": "This paper proposes a novel training method to improve the robustness of Extractive Question Answering (EQA) models. Previous research has shown that existing models, when trained on EQA datasets that include unanswerable questions, demonstrate a significant lack of robustness against distribution shifts and adversarial attacks. Despite this, the inclusion of unanswerable questions in EQA training datasets is essential for ensuring real-world reliability. Our proposed training method includes a novel loss function for the EQA problem and challenges an implicit assumption present in numerous EQA datasets. Models trained with our method maintain in-domain performance while achieving a notable improvement on out-of-domain datasets. This results in an overall F1 score improvement of 5.7 across all testing sets. Furthermore, our models exhibit significantly enhanced robustness against two types of adversarial attacks, with a performance decrease of only about one-third compared to the default models."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Polyglot Voices by Leveraging Cross-Lingual Fine-Tuning in Any-to-One Voice Conversion", "Abstract": "The creation of artificial polyglot voices remains a challenging task, despite considerable progress in recent years. This paper investigates self-supervised learning for voice conversion to create native-sounding polyglot voices. We introduce a novel cross-lingual any-to-one voice conversion system that is able to preserve the source accent without the need for multilingual data from the target speaker. In addition, we show a novel cross-lingual fine-tuning strategy that further improves the accent and reduces the training data requirements. Objective and subjective evaluations with English, Spanish, French and Mandarin Chinese confirm that our approach improves on state-of-the-art methods, enhancing the speech intelligibility and overall quality of the converted speech, especially in cross-lingual scenarios. Audio samples are available at: https://giuseppe-ruggiero.github.io/a2o-vc-demo/"}
{"Title": "IntentionQA: A Benchmark for Evaluating Purchase Intention Comprehension Abilities of Language Models in E-commerce", "Abstract": "Enhancing Language Models{'} (LMs) ability to understand purchase intentions in E-commerce scenarios is crucial for their effective assistance in various downstream tasks. However, previous approaches that distill intentions from LMs often fail to generate meaningful and human-centric intentions applicable in real-world E-commerce contexts. This raises concerns about the true comprehension and utilization of purchase intentions by LMs. In this paper, we present IntentionQA, a double-task multiple-choice question answering benchmark to evaluate LMs{'} comprehension of purchase intentions in E-commerce. Specifically, LMs are tasked to infer intentions based on purchased products and utilize them to predict additional purchases. IntentionQA consists of 4,360 carefully curated problems across three difficulty levels, constructed using an automated pipeline to ensure scalability on large E-commerce platforms. Human evaluations demonstrate the high quality and low false-negative rate of our benchmark. Extensive experiments across 19 language models show that they still struggle with certain scenarios, such as understanding products and intentions accurately, jointly reasoning with products and intentions, and more, in which they fall far behind human performances."}
{"Title": "Draft on the Fly: Adaptive Self-Speculative Decoding using Cosine Similarity", "Abstract": "We present a simple on the fly method for faster inference of large language models. Unlike other (self-)speculative decoding techniques, our method does not require fine-tuning or black-box optimization to generate a fixed draft model, relying instead on simple rules to generate varying draft models adapted to the input context. We show empirically that our light-weight algorithm is competitive with the current SOTA for self-speculative decoding, while being a truly plug-and-play method."}
{"Title": "EconLogicQA: A Question-Answering Benchmark for Evaluating Large Language Models in Economic Sequential Reasoning", "Abstract": "In this paper, we introduce EconLogicQA, a rigorous benchmark designed to assess the sequential reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs) within the intricate realms of economics, business, and supply chain management. Diverging from traditional benchmarks that predict subsequent events individually, EconLogicQA poses a more challenging task: it requires models to discern and sequence multiple interconnected events, capturing the complexity of economic logics. EconLogicQA comprises an array of multi-event scenarios derived from economic articles, which necessitate an insightful understanding of both temporal and logical event relationships. Through comprehensive evaluations, we exhibit that EconLogicQA effectively gauges a LLM{'}s proficiency in navigating the sequential complexities inherent in economic contexts. We provide a detailed description of EconLogicQA dataset and shows the outcomes from evaluating the benchmark across various leading-edge LLMs, thereby offering a thorough perspective on their sequential reasoning potential in economic contexts. Our benchmark dataset is available at https://huggingface.co/datasets/yinzhu-quan/econ{\\_}logic{\\_}qa."}
{"Title": "The Base-Rate Effect on LLM Benchmark Performance: Disambiguating Test-Taking Strategies from Benchmark Performance", "Abstract": "Cloze testing is a common method for measuring the behavior of large language models on a number of benchmark tasks. Using the MMLU dataset, we show that the base-rate probability (BRP) differences across answer tokens are significant and affect task performance ie. guess $A$ if uncertain. We find that counterfactual prompting does sufficiently mitigate the BRP effect. The BRP effect is found to have a similar effect to test taking strategies employed by humans leading to the conflation of task performance and test-taking ability. We propose the Nvr-X-MMLU task, a variation of MMLU, which helps to disambiguate test-taking ability from task performance and reports the latter."}
{"Title": "Can LLM Graph Reasoning Generalize beyond Pattern Memorization?", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) demonstrate great potential for problems with implicit graphical structures, while recent works seek to enhance the graph reasoning capabilities of LLMs through specialized instruction tuning. The resulting {``}graph LLMs{''} are evaluated with in-distribution settings only, thus it remains underexplored whether LLMs are learning generalizable graph reasoning skills or merely memorizing patterns in the synthetic training data. To this end, we propose the NLGift benchmark, an evaluation suite of LLM graph reasoning generalization: whether LLMs could go beyond semantic, numeric, structural, reasoning patterns in the synthetic training data and improve utility on real-world graph-based tasks. Extensive experiments with two LLMs across four graph reasoning tasks demonstrate that while generalization on simple patterns (semantic, numeric) is somewhat satisfactory, LLMs struggle to generalize across reasoning and real-world patterns, casting doubt on the benefit of synthetic graph tuning for real-world tasks with underlying network structures. We explore three strategies to improve LLM graph reasoning generalization, and we find that while post-training alignment is most promising for real-world tasks, empowering LLM graph reasoning to go beyond pattern memorization remains an open research question."}
{"Title": "Improving Multilingual Instruction Finetuning via Linguistically Natural and Diverse Datasets", "Abstract": "Advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have significantly enhanced instruction-following capabilities. However, most Instruction Fine-Tuning (IFT) datasets are predominantly in English, limiting model performance in other languages. Traditional methods for creating multilingual IFT datasets{---}such as translating existing English IFT datasets or converting existing NLP datasets into IFT datasets by templating{---}struggle to capture linguistic nuances and ensure prompt (instruction) diversity. To address this issue, we propose a novel method for collecting multilingual IFT datasets that preserves linguistic naturalness and ensures prompt diversity. This approach leverages English-focused LLMs, monolingual corpora, and a scoring function to create high-quality, diversified IFT datasets in multiple languages. Experiments demonstrate that LLMs finetuned using these IFT datasets show notable improvements in both generative and discriminative tasks, indicating enhanced language comprehension by LLMs in non-English contexts. Specifically, on the multilingual summarization task, LLMs using our IFT dataset achieved 17.57{\\%} and 15.23{\\%} improvements over LLMs fine-tuned with translation-based and template-based datasets, respectively."}
{"Title": "ASTE-Transformer: Modelling Dependencies in Aspect-Sentiment Triplet Extraction", "Abstract": "Aspect-Sentiment Triplet Extraction (ASTE) is a recently proposed task of aspect-based sentiment analysis that consists in extracting (aspect phrase, opinion phrase, sentiment polarity) triples from a given sentence. Recent state-of-the-art methods approach this task by first extracting all possible text spans from a given text, then filtering the potential aspect and opinion phrases with a classifier, and finally considering all their pairs with another classifier that additionally assigns sentiment polarity to them. Although several variations of the above scheme have been proposed, the common feature is that the final result is constructed by a sequence of independent classifier decisions. This hinders the exploitation of dependencies between extracted phrases and prevents the use of knowledge about the interrelationships between classifier predictions to improve performance. In this paper, we propose a new ASTE approach consisting of three transformer-inspired layers, which enables the modelling of dependencies both between phrases and between the final classifier decisions. Experimental results show that the method achieves higher performance in terms of F1 measure than other methods studied on popular benchmarks. In addition, we show that a simple pre-training technique further improves the performance of the model."}
{"Title": "Faithful and Plausible Natural Language Explanations for Image Classification: A Pipeline Approach", "Abstract": "Existing explanation methods for image classification struggle to provide faithful and plausible explanations. This paper addresses this issue by proposing a post-hoc natural language explanation method that can be applied to any CNN-based classifier without altering its training process or affecting predictive performance. By analysing influential neurons and the corresponding activation maps, the method generates a faithful description of the classifier{'}s decision process in the form of a structured meaning representation, which is then converted into text by a language model. Through this pipeline approach, the generated explanations are grounded in the neural network architecture, providing accurate insight into the classification process while remaining accessible to non-experts. Experimental results show that the NLEs constructed by our method are significantly more plausible and faithful than baselines. In particular, user interventions in the neural network structure (masking of neurons) are three times more effective."}
{"Title": "SynTQA: Synergistic Table-based Question Answering via Mixture of Text-to-SQL and E2E TQA", "Abstract": "Text-to-SQL parsing and end-to-end question answering (E2E TQA) are two main approaches for Table-based Question Answering task. Despite success on multiple benchmarks, they have yet to be compared and their synergy remains unexplored. In this paper, we identify different strengths and weaknesses through evaluating state-of-the-art models on benchmark datasets: Text-to-SQL demonstrates superiority in handling questions involving arithmetic operations and long tables; E2E TQA excels in addressing ambiguous questions, non-standard table schema, and complex table contents. To combine both strengths, we propose a Synergistic Table-based Question Answering approach that integrate different models via answer selection, which is agnostic to any model types. Further experiments validate that ensembling models by either feature-based or LLM-based answer selector significantly improves the performance over individual models."}
{"Title": "OpenGraph: Towards Open Graph Foundation Models", "Abstract": "Graph learning has become essential in various domains, including recommendation systems and social network analysis. Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have emerged as promising techniques for encoding structural information and improving performance in tasks like link prediction and node classification. However, a key challenge remains: the difficulty of generalizing to unseen graph data with different properties. In this work, we propose a novel graph foundation model, called OpenGraph, to address this challenge. Our approach tackles several technical obstacles. Firstly, we enhance data augmentation using a large language model (LLM) to overcome data scarcity in real-world scenarios. Secondly, we introduce a unified graph tokenizer that enables the model to generalize effectively to diverse graph data, even when encountering unseen properties during training. Thirdly, our developed scalable graph transformer captures node-wise dependencies within the global topological context. Extensive experiments validate the effectiveness of our framework. By adapting OpenGraph to new graph characteristics and comprehending diverse graphs, our approach achieves remarkable zero-shot graph learning performance across various settings. We release the model implementation at https://github.com/HKUDS/OpenGraph."}
{"Title": "Controlling Risk of Retrieval-augmented Generation: A Counterfactual Prompting Framework", "Abstract": "Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has emerged as a popular solution to mitigate the hallucination issues of large language models. However, existing studies on RAG seldom address the issue of predictive uncertainty, i.e., how likely it is that a RAG model{'}s prediction is incorrect, resulting in uncontrollable risks in real-world applications. In this work, we emphasize the importance of risk control, ensuring that RAG models proactively refuse to answer questions with low confidence. Our research identifies two critical latent factors affecting RAG{'}s confidence in its predictions: the quality of the retrieved results and the manner in which these results are utilized. To guide RAG models in assessing their own confidence based on these two latent factors, we develop a counterfactual prompting framework that induces the models to alter these factors and analyzes the effect on their answers. We also introduce a benchmarking procedure to collect answers with the option to abstain, facilitating a series of experiments. For evaluation, we introduce several risk-related metrics and the experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach. Our code and benchmark dataset are available at https://github.com/ict-bigdatalab/RC-RAG."}
{"Title": "Learning to Paraphrase for Alignment with LLM Preference", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) exhibit the issue of paraphrase divergence. This means that when a question is phrased in a slightly different but semantically similar way, LLM may output a wrong response despite being able to answer the original question correctly. Previous research has regarded this issue as a problem of the model{'}s robustness to question paraphrase and proposed a retraining method to address it. However, retraining faces challenges in meeting the computational costs and privacy security demands of LLMs. In this paper, we regard this issue as a problem of alignment with model preferences and propose PEARL (Preference-drivEn pAraphRase Learning). This is a black-box method that enhances model performance by paraphrasing questions in expressions preferred by the model. We validate PEARL across six datasets spanning three tasks: open-domain QA, commonsense reasoning, and math word problem. Extensive experiments demonstrated not only the outstanding performance but also the composability, transferability, and immense potential of PEARL, shedding new light on the black-box tuning of LLMs."}
{"Title": "Mirror-Consistency: Harnessing Inconsistency in Majority Voting", "Abstract": "Self-Consistency, a widely-used decoding strategy, significantly boosts the reasoning capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). However, it depends on the plurality voting rule, which focuses on the most frequent answer while overlooking all other minority responses. These inconsistent minority views often illuminate areas of uncertainty within the model{'}s generation process. To address this limitation, we present Mirror-Consistency, an enhancement of the standard Self-Consistency approach. Our method incorporates a {`}reflective mirror{'} into the self-ensemble decoding process and enables LLMs to critically examine inconsistencies among multiple generations. Additionally, just as humans use the mirror to better understand themselves, we propose using Mirror-Consistency to enhance the sample-based confidence calibration methods, which helps to mitigate issues of overconfidence. Our experimental results demonstrate that Mirror-Consistency yields superior performance in both reasoning accuracy and confidence calibration compared to Self-Consistency."}
{"Title": "Adaptive Contrastive Decoding in Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Handling Noisy Contexts", "Abstract": "When using large language models (LLMs) in knowledge-intensive tasks, such as open-domain question answering, external context can bridge the gap between external knowledge and the LLMs{'} parametric knowledge.Recent research has been developed to amplify contextual knowledge over the parametric knowledge of LLMs with contrastive decoding approaches.While these approaches could yield truthful responses when relevant context is provided, they are prone to vulnerabilities when faced with noisy contexts.We extend the scope of previous studies to encompass noisy contexts and propose adaptive contrastive decoding (ACD) to leverage contextual influence effectively.ACD demonstrates improvements in open-domain question answering tasks compared to baselines, especially in robustness by remaining undistracted by noisy contexts in retrieval-augmented generation."}
{"Title": "AnyTrans: Translate AnyText in the Image with Large Scale Models", "Abstract": "This paper introduces AnyText, an all-encompassing framework for the task{--}In-Image Machine Translation (IIMT), which includes multilingual text translation and text fusion within images. Our framework leverages the strengths of large-scale models, such as Large Language Models (LLMs) and text-guided diffusion models, to incorporate contextual cues from both textual and visual elements during translation. The few-shot learning capability of LLMs allows for the translation of fragmented texts by considering the overall context. Meanwhile, diffusion models{'} advanced inpainting and editing abilities make it possible to fuse translated text seamlessly into the original image while preserving its style and realism. Our framework can be constructed entirely using open-source models and requires no training, making it highly accessible and easily expandable. To encourage advancement in the IIMT task, we have meticulously compiled a test dataset called MTIT6, which consists of multilingual text image translation data from six language pairs."}
{"Title": "In-Context Former: Lightning-fast Compressing Context for Large Language Model", "Abstract": "With the rising popularity of Transformer-based large language models (LLMs), reducing their high inference costs has become a significant research focus. One effective approach to mitigate these costs is compressing the long input contexts. Existing methods typically leverage the self-attention mechanism of the large model itself for context compression. While these methods have achieved notable results, the compression process still entails quadratic complexity. To mitigate this limitation, we propose the In-Context Former (IC-Former). This method does not rely on the target large model but instead utilizes cross-attention mechanisms to extract and condense information from the contextual embeddings. The computational overhead of our method grows linearly with the compression range. Experimental results indicate that our method requires only 1/32 of the floating-point operations of the baseline during compression and improves processing speed by 68 to 112 times while achieving 90{\\%} of the baseline performance on evaluation metrics. Additionally, IC-Former demonstrates strong regularity in its interactions with the context, enhancing its interpretability. Overall, IC-Former significantly reduces compression costs, making real-time compression scenarios feasible."}
{"Title": "How Alignment and Jailbreak Work: Explain LLM Safety through Intermediate Hidden States", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) rely on safety alignment to avoid responding to malicious user inputs. Unfortunately, jailbreak can circumvent safety guardrails, resulting in LLMs generating harmful content and raising concerns about LLM safety. Due to language models with intensive parameters often regarded as black boxes, the mechanisms of alignment and jailbreak are challenging to elucidate. In this paper, we employ weak classifiers to explain LLM safety through the intermediate hidden states. We first confirm that LLMs learn ethical concepts during pre-training rather than alignment and can identify malicious and normal inputs in the early layers. Alignment actually associates the early concepts with emotion guesses in the middle layers and then refines them to the specific reject tokens for safe generations. Jailbreak disturbs the transformation of early unethical classification into negative emotions. We conduct experiments on models from 7B to 70B across various model families to prove our conclusion. Overall, our paper indicates the intrinsical mechanism of LLM safety and how jailbreaks circumvent safety guardrails, offering a new perspective on LLM safety and reducing concerns."}
{"Title": "A Coarse-to-Fine Prototype Learning Approach for Multi-Label Few-Shot Intent Detection", "Abstract": "Few-shot intent detection is a challenging task, particularly in scenarios involving multiple labels and diverse domains. This paper presents a novel prototype learning approach that combines the label synset augmentation and the coarse-to-fine prototype distillation for multi-label few-shot intent detection. To tackle the data scarcity issue and the lack of information for unseen domains, we propose to enhance the representations of utterances with label synset augmentation and refine the prototypes by distilling the coarse domain knowledge from a universal teacher model. To solve the multilingual intent detection in real-world dialogue systems, we fine-tune a cross-lingual teacher model to make our method fast adapt to different languages and re-annotate two non-English task-oriented dialogue datasets CrossWOZ and JMultiWOZ in multi-label form. Experimental results on one English and two non-English datasets demonstrate that our approach significantly outperforms existing methods in terms of accuracy and generalization across different domains."}
{"Title": "Can Large Language Models Understand DL-Lite Ontologies? An Empirical Study", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have shown significant achievements in solving a wide range of tasks. Recently, LLMs{'} capability to store, retrieve and infer with symbolic knowledge has drawn a great deal of attention, showing their potential to understand structured information. However, it is not yet known whether LLMs can understand Description Logic (DL) ontologies. In this work, we empirically analyze the LLMs{'} capability of understanding DL-Lite ontologies covering 6 representative tasks from syntactic and semantic aspects. With extensive experiments, we demonstrate both the effectiveness and limitations of LLMs in understanding DL-Lite ontologies. We find that LLMs can understand formal syntax and model-theoretic semantics of concepts and roles. However, LLMs struggle with understanding TBox NI transitivity and handling ontologies with large ABoxes. We hope that our experiments and analyses provide more insights into LLMs and inspire to build more faithful knowledge engineering solutions."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Healthcare LLM Trust with Atypical Presentations Recalibration", "Abstract": "Black-box large language models (LLMs) are increasingly deployed in various environments, making it essential for these models to effectively convey their confidence and uncertainty, especially in high-stakes settings. However, these models often exhibit overconfidence, leading to potential risks and misjudgments. Existing techniques for eliciting and calibrating LLM confidence have primarily focused on general reasoning datasets, yielding only modest improvements. Accurate calibration is crucial for informed decision-making and preventing adverse outcomes but remains challenging due to the complexity and variability of tasks these models perform. In this work, we investigate the miscalibration behavior of black-box LLMs within the healthcare setting. We propose a novel method, Atypical Presentations Recalibration, which leverages atypical presentations to adjust the model{'}s confidence estimates. Our approach significantly improves calibration, reducing calibration errors by approximately 60{\\%} on three medical question answering datasets and outperforming existing methods such as vanilla verbalized confidence, CoT verbalized confidence and others. Additionally, we provide an in-depth analysis of the role of atypicality within the recalibration framework."}
{"Title": "EvoR: Evolving Retrieval for Code Generation", "Abstract": "Recently the retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has been successfully applied in code generation. However, existing pipelines for retrieval-augmented code generation (RACG) employ static knowledge bases with a single source, limiting the adaptation capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) to domains they have insufficient knowledge of. In this work, we develop a novel pipeline, EVOR, that employs the synchronous evolution of both queries and diverse knowledge bases. On two realistic settings where the external knowledge is required to solve code generation tasks, we compile four new datasets associated with frequently updated libraries and long-tail programming languages, named EVOR-BENCH. Extensive experiments demonstrate that EVOR achieves two to four times of execution accuracy compared to other methods such as Reflexion (Shinn et al., 2024), DocPrompting (Zhou et al., 2023), etc. We demonstrate that EVOR is flexible and can be easily combined with them to achieve further improvement. Further analysis reveals that EVOR benefits from the synchronous evolution of queries and documents and the diverse information sources in the knowledge base. We hope that our studies will inspire more insights into the design of advanced RACG pipelines in future research."}
{"Title": "Head-wise Shareable Attention for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Divide-or-Conquer? Which Part Should You Distill Your LLM?", "Abstract": "Recent methods have demonstrated that Large Language Models (LLMs) can solve reasoning tasks better when they are encouraged to solve subtasks of the main task first. In this paper we devise a similar strategy that breaks down reasoning tasks into a problem decomposition phase and a problem solving phase and show that the strategy is able to outperform a single stage solution. Further, we hypothesize that the decomposition should be easier to distill into a smaller model compared to the problem solving because the latter requires large amounts of domain knowledge while the former only requires learning general problem solving strategies. We propose methods to distill these two capabilities and evaluate their impact on reasoning outcomes and inference cost. We find that we can distill the problem decomposition phase and at the same time achieve good generalization across tasks, datasets, and models. However, it is harder to distill the problem solving capability without losing performance and the resulting distilled model struggles with generalization. These results indicate that by using smaller, distilled problem decomposition models in combination with problem solving LLMs we can achieve reasoning with cost-efficient inference and local adaptation."}
{"Title": "Navigating the Shortcut Maze: A Comprehensive Analysis of Shortcut Learning in Text Classification by Language Models", "Abstract": "Language models (LMs), despite their advances, often depend on spurious correlations, undermining their accuracy and generalizability. This study addresses the overlooked impact of subtler, more complex shortcuts that compromise model reliability beyond oversimplified shortcuts. We introduce a comprehensive benchmark that categorizes shortcuts into occurrence, style, and concept, aiming to explore the nuanced ways in which these shortcuts influence the performance of LMs. Through extensive experiments across traditional LMs, large language models, and state-of-the-art robust models, our research systematically investigates models{'} resilience and susceptibilities to sophisticated shortcuts. Our benchmark and code can be found at: https://github.com/yuqing-zhou/shortcut-learning-in-text-classification."}
{"Title": "Privacy Evaluation Benchmarks for NLP Models", "Abstract": "By inducing privacy attacks on NLP models, attackers can obtain sensitive information such as training data and model parameters, etc. Although researchers have studied, in-depth, several kinds of attacks in NLP models, they are non-systematic analyses. It lacks a comprehensive understanding of the impact caused by the attacks. For example, we must consider which scenarios can apply to which attacks, what the common factors are that affect the performance of different attacks, the nature of the relationships between different attacks, and the influence of various datasets and models on the effectiveness of the attacks, etc. Therefore, we need a benchmark to holistically assess the privacy risks faced by NLP models. In this paper, we present a privacy attack and defense evaluation benchmark in the field of NLP, which includes the conventional/small models and large language models (LLMs). This benchmark supports a variety of models, datasets, and protocols, along with standardized modules for comprehensive evaluation of attacks and defense strategies. Based on the above framework, we present a study on the association between auxiliary data from different domains and the strength of privacy attacks. And we provide an improved attack method in this scenario with the help of Knowledge Distillation (KD). Furthermore, we propose a chained framework for privacy attacks. Allowing a practitioner to chain multiple attacks to achieve a higher-level attack objective. Based on this, we provide some defense and enhanced attack strategies. The code for reproducing the results can be found at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/nlp{\\_}doctor-AF48"}
{"Title": "MM-ChatAlign: A Novel Multimodal Reasoning Framework based on Large Language Models for Entity Alignment", "Abstract": "Multimodal entity alignment (MMEA) integrates multi-source and cross-modal knowledge graphs, a crucial yet challenging task for data-centric applications.Traditional MMEA methods derive the visual embeddings of entities and combine them with other modal data for alignment by embedding similarity comparison.However, these methods are hampered by the limited comprehension of visual attributes and deficiencies in realizing and bridging the semantics of multimodal data. To address these challenges, we propose MM-ChatAlign, a novel framework that utilizes the visual reasoning abilities of MLLMs for MMEA.The framework features an embedding-based candidate collection module that adapts to various knowledge representation strategies, effectively filtering out irrelevant reasoning candidates. Additionally, a reasoning and rethinking module, powered by MLLMs, enhances alignment by efficiently utilizing multimodal information.Extensive experiments on four MMEA datasets demonstrate MM-ChatAlign{'}s superiority and underscore the significant potential of MLLMs in MMEA tasks.The source code is available at https://github.com/jxh4945777/MMEA/."}
{"Title": "Towards Explainable Computerized Adaptive Testing with Large Language Model", "Abstract": "As intelligent education evolves, it will provide students with multiple personalized learning services based on their individual abilities. Computerized adaptive testing (CAT) is designed to accurately measure a student{'}s ability using the least questions, providing an efficient and personalized testing method. However, existing methods mainly focus on minimizing the number of questions required to assess ability, often lacking clear and reliable explanations for the question selection process. Educators and students can hardly trust and accept CAT systems without an understanding of the rationale behind the question selection process. To address this issue, we introduce \\textbf{L}LM-\\textbf{A}gent-Based \\textbf{CAT} (LACAT), a novel agent powered by large language models to enhance CAT with human-like interpretability and explanation capabilities. LACAT consists of three key modules: the Summarizer, which generates interpretable student profiles; the Reasoner, which personalizes questions and provides human-readable explanations; and the Critic, which learns from past choices to optimize future question selection. We conducted extensive experiments on three real-world educational datasets. The results demonstrate that LACAT can perform comparably or superior to traditional CAT methods in accuracy and significantly improve the transparency and acceptability of the testing process. Human evaluations further confirm that LACAT can generate high-quality, understandable explanations, thereby enhancing student trust and satisfaction."}
{"Title": "MC-indexing: Effective Long Document Retrieval via Multi-view Content-aware Indexing", "Abstract": "Long document question answering (DocQA) aims to answer questions from long documents over 10k words. They usually contain content structures such as sections, sub-sections, and paragraph demarcations. However, the indexing methods of long documents remain under-explored, while existing systems generally employ fixed-length chunking. As they do not consider content structures, the resultant chunks can exclude vital information or include irrelevant content. Motivated by this, we propose the **M**ulti-view **C**ontent-aware indexing (**MC-indexing**) for more effective long DocQA via (i) segment structured document into content chunks, and (ii) represent each content chunk in raw-text, keywords, and summary views. We highlight that MC-indexing requires neither training nor fine-tuning. Having plug-and-play capability, it can be seamlessly integrated with any retrievers to boost their performance. Besides, we propose a long DocQA dataset that includes not only question-answer pair, but also document structure and answer scope. When compared to state-of-art chunking schemes, MC-indexing has significantly increased the recall by **42.8{\\%}**, **30.0{\\%}**, **23.9{\\%}**, and **16.3{\\%}** via top k = 1.5, 3, 5, and 10 respectively. These improved scores are the average of 8 widely used retrievers (2 sparse and 6 dense) via extensive experiments."}
{"Title": "PSLM: Parallel Generation of Text and Speech with LLMs for Low-Latency Spoken Dialogue Systems", "Abstract": "Multimodal language models that process both text and speech have a potential for applications in spoken dialogue systems. However, current models face two major challenges in response generation latency: (1) generating a spoken response requires the prior generation of a written response, and (2) speech sequences are significantly longer than text sequences. This study addresses these issues by extending the input and output sequences of the language model to support the parallel generation of text and speech. Our experiments on spoken question answering tasks demonstrate that our approach improves latency while maintaining the quality of response content. Additionally, we show that latency can be further reduced by generating speech in multiple sequences. Demo samples are available at https://rinnakk.github.io/research/publications/PSLM."}
{"Title": "Correct after Answer: Enhancing Multi-Span Question Answering with Post-Processing Method", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Are Large Language Models (LLMs) Good Social Predictors?", "Abstract": "With the recent advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs), efforts have been made to leverage LLMs in crucial social science study methods, including predicting human features of social life such as presidential voting. Existing works suggest that LLMs are capable of generating human-like responses. Nevertheless, it is unclear how well LLMs work and where the plausible predictions derive from. This paper critically examines the performance of LLMs as social predictors, pointing out the source of correct predictions and limitations. Based on the notion of mutability that classifies social features, we design three realistic settings and a novel social prediction task, where the LLMs make predictions with input features of the same mutability and accessibility with the response feature. We find that the promising performance achieved by previous studies is because of input shortcut features to the response, which are hard to capture in reality; the performance degrades dramatically to near-random after removing the shortcuts. With the comprehensive investigations on various LLMs, we reveal that LLMs struggle to work as expected on social prediction when given ordinarily available input features without shortcuts. We further investigate possible reasons for this phenomenon and suggest potential ways to enhance LLMs for social prediction."}
{"Title": "Bahasa Harmony: A Comprehensive Dataset for Bahasa Text-to-Speech Synthesis with Discrete Codec Modeling of EnGen-TTS.", "Abstract": "This research introduces a comprehensive Bahasa text-to-speech (TTS) dataset and a novel TTS model, EnGen-TTS, designed to enhance the quality and versatility of synthetic speech in the Bahasa language. The dataset, spanning 55.00 hours and 52K audio recordings, integrates diverse textual sources, ensuring linguistic richness. A meticulous recording setup captures the nuances of Bahasa phonetics, employing professional equipment to ensure high-fidelity audio samples. Statistical analysis reveals the dataset{'}s scale and diversity, laying the foundation for model training and evaluation. The proposed EnGen-TTS model performs better than established baselines, achieving a Mean Opinion Score (MOS) of 4.45 {\\mbox{$\\pm$}} 0.13. Additionally, our investigation on real-time factor and model size highlights EnGen-TTS as a compelling choice, with efficient performance. This research marks a significant advancement in Bahasa TTS technology, with implications for diverse language applications."}
{"Title": "MINERS: Multilingual Language Models as Semantic Retrievers", "Abstract": "Words have been represented in a high-dimensional vector space that encodes their semantic similarities, enabling downstream applications such as retrieving synonyms, antonyms, and relevant contexts. However, despite recent advances in multilingual language models (LMs), the effectiveness of these models{'} representations in semantic retrieval contexts has not been comprehensively explored. To fill this gap, this paper introduces the MINERS, a benchmark designed to evaluate the ability of multilingual LMs in semantic retrieval tasks, including bitext mining and classification via retrieval-augmented contexts. We create a comprehensive framework to assess the robustness of LMs in retrieving samples across over 200 diverse languages, including extremely low-resource languages in challenging cross-lingual and code-switching settings. Our results demonstrate that by solely retrieving semantically similar embeddings yields performance competitive with state-of-the-art approaches, without requiring any fine-tuning."}
{"Title": "BoolQuestions: Does Dense Retrieval Understand Boolean Logic in Language?", "Abstract": "Dense retrieval, which aims to encode the semantic information of arbitrary text into dense vector representations or embeddings, has emerged as an effective and efficient paradigm for text retrieval, consequently becoming an essential component in various natural language processing systems. These systems typically focus on optimizing the embedding space by attending to the relevance of text pairs, while overlooking the Boolean logic inherent in language, which may not be captured by current training objectives. In this work, we first investigate whether current retrieval systems can comprehend the Boolean logic implied in language. To answer this question, we formulate the task of Boolean Dense Retrieval and collect a benchmark dataset, BoolQuestions, which covers complex queries containing basic Boolean logic and corresponding annotated passages. Through extensive experimental results on the proposed task and benchmark dataset, we draw the conclusion that current dense retrieval systems do not fully understand Boolean logic in language, and there is a long way to go to improve our dense retrieval systems. Furthermore, to promote further research on enhancing the understanding of Boolean logic for language models, we explore Boolean operation on decomposed query and propose a contrastive continual training method that serves as a strong baseline for the research community."}
{"Title": "McCrolin: Multi-consistency Cross-lingual Training for Retrieval Question Answering", "Abstract": "Automated question answering (QA) systems are increasingly relying on robust cross-lingual retrieval to identify and utilize information from multilingual sources, ensuring comprehensive and contextually accurate responses. Existing approaches often struggle with consistency across multiple languages and multi-size input scenarios. To address these challenges, we propose McCrolin, a Multi-consistency Cross-lingual training framework, leveraging multi-task learning to enhance cross-lingual consistency, ranking stability, and input-size robustness. Experimental results demonstrate that McCrolin achieves state-of-the-art performance on standard cross-lingual retrieval QA datasets. Furthermore, McCrolin outperforms competitors when dealing with various input sizes on downstream tasks. In terms of generalizability, results from further analysis show that our method is effective for various encoder architectures and sizes."}
{"Title": "A Novel Metric for Measuring the Robustness of Large Language Models in Non-adversarial Scenarios", "Abstract": "We evaluate the robustness of several large language models on multiple datasets. Robustness here refers to the relative insensitivity of the model{'}s answers to meaning-preserving variants of their input. Benchmark datasets are constructed by introducing naturally-occurring, non-malicious perturbations, or by generating semantically equivalent paraphrases of input questions or statements. We further propose a novel metric for assessing a model robustness, and demonstrate its benefits in the non-adversarial scenario by empirical evaluation of several models on the created datasets."}
{"Title": "Learning Musical Representations for Music Performance Question Answering", "Abstract": "Music performances are representative scenarios for audio-visual modeling. Unlike common scenarios with sparse audio, music performances continuously involve dense audio signals throughout. While existing multimodal learning methods on the audio-video QA demonstrate impressive capabilities on general scenarios, they are incapable of dealing with fundamental problems within the music performances: they underexplore the interaction between the multimodal signals in performance, and fail to consider the distinctive characteristics of instruments and music. Therefore, existing methods tend to inaccurately answer questions regarding musical performances. To bridge the above research gaps, first, given the intricate multimodal interconnectivity inherent to music data, our primary backbone is designed to incorporate multimodal interactions within the context of music; second, to enable the model to learn music characteristics, we annotate and release rhythmic and music sources in the current music datasets; third, for time-aware audio-visual modelling, we align the model{'}s music predictions with the temporal dimension. Our experiments show state-of-the-art effects on the Music AVQA datasets. Our code is available at: https://github.com/xid32/Amuse."}
{"Title": "Transfer Learning for Text Classification via Model Risk Analysis", "Abstract": "It has been well recognized that text classification can be satisfactorily performed by Deep Neural Network (DNN) models, provided that there are sufficient in-distribution training data. However, in the presence of distribution drift, a well trained DNN model may not perform well on a new dataset even though class labels are aligned between training and target datasets. To alleviate this limitation, we propose a novel approach based on model risk analysis to adapt a pre-trained DNN model towards a new dataset given only a small set of representative data. We first present a solution of model risk analysis for text classification, which can effectively quantify misprediction risk of a classifier on a dataset. Built upon the existing framework of LearnRisk, the proposed solution, denoted by LearnRisk-TC, first generates interpretable risk features, then constructs a risk model by aggregating these features, and finally trains the risk model on a small set of labeled data. Furthermore, we present a transfer learning solution based on model risk analysis, which can effectively fine-tune a pre-trained model toward a target dataset by minimizing its misprediction risk. We have conducted extensive experiments on real datasets. Our experimental results show that the proposed solution performs considerably better than the existing alternative approaches. By using text classification as a test case, we demonstrate the potential applicability of risk-based transfer learning to various challenging NLP tasks. Our codes are available at https://github.com/syjcomputer/LRTC."}
{"Title": "Typos that Broke the RAG's Back: Genetic Attack on RAG Pipeline by Simulating Documents in the Wild via Low-level Perturbations", "Abstract": "The robustness of recent Large Language Models (LLMs) has become increasingly crucial as their applicability expands across various domains and real-world applications. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is a promising solution for addressing the limitations of LLMs, yet existing studies on the robustness of RAG often overlook the interconnected relationships between RAG components or the potential threats prevalent in real-world databases, such as minor textual errors. In this work, we investigate two underexplored aspects when assessing the robustness of RAG: 1) vulnerability to noisy documents through low-level perturbations and 2) a holistic evaluation of RAG robustness. Furthermore, we introduce a novel attack method, the Genetic Attack on RAG (GARAG), which targets these aspects. Specifically, GARAG is designed to reveal vulnerabilities within each component and test the overall system functionality against noisy documents. We validate RAG robustness by applying our GARAG to standard QA datasets, incorporating diverse retrievers and LLMs. The experimental results show that GARAG consistently achieves high attack success rates. Also, it significantly devastates the performance of each component and their synergy, highlighting the substantial risk that minor textual inaccuracies pose in disrupting RAG systems in the real world. Code is available at https://github.com/zomss/GARAG."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Temporal Modeling of Video LLMs via Time Gating", "Abstract": "Video Large Language Models (Video LLMs) have achieved impressive performance on video-and-language tasks, such as video question answering. However, most existing Video LLMs neglect temporal information in video data, leading to struggles with temporal-aware video understanding. To address this gap, we propose a Time Gating Video LLM (TG-Vid) designed to enhance temporal modeling through a novel Time Gating module (TG). The TG module employs a time gating mechanism on its sub-modules, comprising gating spatial attention, gating temporal attention, and gating MLP. This architecture enables our model to achieve a robust understanding of temporal information within videos. Extensive evaluation of temporal-sensitive video benchmarks (i.e., MVBench, TempCompass, and NExT-QA) demonstrates that our TG-Vid model significantly outperforms the existing Video LLMs. Further, comprehensive ablation studies validate that the performance gains are attributed to the designs of our TG module. Our code is available at https://github.com/LaVi-Lab/TG-Vid."}
{"Title": "AlignedCoT: Prompting Large Language Models via Native-Speaking Demonstrations", "Abstract": "Large Language Models prompting, such as using in-context demonstrations, is a mainstream technique for invoking LLMs to perform high-performance and solid complex reasoning (e.g., mathematical reasoning, commonsense reasoning), and has the potential for further human-machine collaborative scientific findings. However, current LLMs are delicate and elusive in prompt words and styles. And there is an unseen gap between LLM understanding and human-written prompts. This paper introduces AlignedCoT, an LLM-acquainted prompting technique that includes proficient {``}native-speaking{''} in in-context learning for the LLMs. Specifically, it achieves consistent and correct step-wise prompts in zero-shot scenarios by progressively probing, refining, and formatting the LLM chain of thoughts so that free from handcrafted few-shot demonstrations while maintaining the prompt quality. We conduct experiments on mathematical reasoning and commonsense reasoning. We find that LLMs with AlignedCoT perform significantly superior to them with human-crafted demonstrations. We further apply AlignedCoT for rewriting the GSM8k training set, resulting in a GSM8k-Align dataset. We observe its benefits for retrieval augmented generation."}
{"Title": "On the Empirical Complexity of Reasoning and Planning in LLMs", "Abstract": "Chain-of-thought (CoT), tree-of-thought (ToT), and related techniques work surprisingly well in practice for some complex reasoning tasks with Large Language Models (LLMs), but why? This work seeks the underlying reasons by conducting experimental case studies and linking the performance benefits to well-established sample and computational complexity principles in machine learning. We experimented with six reasoning tasks, ranging from grade school math, air travel planning, ..., to Blocksworld. The results suggest that (i) both CoT and ToT benefit significantly from task decomposition, which breaks a complex reasoning task into a sequence of steps with low sample complexity and explicitly outlines the reasoning structure; (ii) for computationally hard reasoning tasks, the more sophisticated tree structure of ToT outperforms the linear structure of CoT; (iii) explicitly annotating important variables is important for good performance. These findings provide useful guidelines for using LLM in solving reasoning tasks in practice."}
{"Title": "Learning from Mistakes: Iterative Prompt Relabeling for Text-to-Image Diffusion Model Training", "Abstract": "Diffusion models have shown impressive performance in many domains. However, the model{'}s capability to follow natural language instructions (e.g., spatial relationships between objects, generating complex scenes) is still unsatisfactory. In this work, we propose Iterative Prompt Relabeling (IPR), a novel algorithm that aligns images to text through iterative image sampling and prompt relabeling with feedback. IPR first samples a batch of images conditioned on the text, then relabels the text prompts of unmatched text-image pairs with classifier feedback. We conduct thorough experiments on SDv2 and SDXL, testing their capability to follow instructions on spatial relations. With IPR, we improved up to 15.22{\\%} (absolute improvement) on the challenging spatial relation VISOR benchmark, demonstrating superior performance compared to previous RL methods. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/cxy000000/IPR-RLDF."}
{"Title": "Are modern neural ASR architectures robust for polysynthetic languages?", "Abstract": "Automatic speech recognition (ASR) technology is frequently proposed as a means of preservation and documentation of endangered languages, with promising results thus far. Among the endangered languages spoken today, a significant number exhibit complex morphology. The models employed in contemporary language documentation pipelines that utilize ASR, however, are predominantly based on isolating or inflectional languages, often from the Indo-European family. This raises a critical concern: building models exclusively on such languages may introduce a bias, resulting in better performance with simpler morphological structures. In this paper, we investigate the performance of modern ASR architectures on morphologically complex languages. Results indicate that modern ASR architectures appear less robust in managing high OOV rates for morphologically complex languages in terms of word error rate, while character error rates are consistently higher for isolating languages."}
{"Title": "A Notion of Complexity for Theory of Mind via Discrete World Models", "Abstract": "Theory of Mind (ToM) can be used to assess the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) in complex scenarios where social reasoning is required. While the research community has proposed many ToM benchmarks, their hardness varies greatly, and their complexity is not well defined. This work proposes a framework inspired by cognitive load theory to measure the complexity of ToM tasks. We quantify a problem{'}s complexity as the number of states necessary to solve it correctly. Our complexity measure also accounts for spurious states of a ToM problem designed to make it apparently harder. We use our method to assess the complexity of five widely adopted ToM benchmarks. On top of this framework, we design a prompting technique that augments the information available to a model with a description of how the environment changes with the agents{'} interactions. We name this technique Discrete World Models (DWM) and show how it elicits superior performance on ToM tasks."}
{"Title": "Learning Dynamic Multi-attribute Interest for Personalized Product Search", "Abstract": "Personalized product search aims to learn personalized preferences from search logs and adjust the ranking lists returned by engines. Previous studies have extensively explored excavating valuable features to build accurate interest profiles. However, they overlook that the user{'}s attention varies on product attributes(e.g., brand, category). Users may especially prefer specific attributes or switch their preferences between attributes dynamically. Instead, existing approaches mix up all attribute features and let the model automatically extract useful ones from rather complex scenarios. To solve this problem, in this paper, we propose a dynamic multi-attribute interest learning model to tackle the influences from attributes to user interests. Specifically, we design two interest profiling modules: attribute-centered and attribute-aware profiling. The former focuses on capturing the user{'}s preferences on a single attribute, while the latter focuses on addressing the interests correlated with multi-attribute within the search history. Besides, we devise a dynamic contribution weights strategy that sends explicit signals to the model to determine the impacts of different attributes better. Experimental results on large-scale datasets illustrate that our model significantly improves the results of existing methods."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Automatic Metrics with Incremental Machine Translation Systems", "Abstract": "We introduce a dataset comprising commercial machine translations, gathered weekly over six years across 12 translation directions. Since human A/B testing is commonly used, we assume commercial systems improve over time, which enables us to evaluate machine translation (MT) metrics based on their preference for more recent translations. Our study not only confirms several prior findings, such as the advantage of neural metrics over non-neural ones, but also explores the debated issue of how MT quality affects metric reliability{---}an investigation that smaller datasets in previous research could not sufficiently explore. Overall, our research demonstrates the dataset{'}s value as a testbed for metric evaluation. We release our code."}
{"Title": "LLM-Based Offline Learning for Embodied Agents via Consistency-Guided Reward Ensemble", "Abstract": "Employing large language models (LLMs) to enable embodied agents has become popular, yet it presents several limitations in practice. In this work, rather than using LLMs directly as agents, we explore their use as tools for embodied agent learning. Specifically, to train separate agents via offline reinforcement learning (RL), an LLM is used to provide dense reward feedback on individual actions in training datasets. In doing so, we present a consistency-guided reward ensemble framework (CoREN), designed for tackling difficulties in grounding LLM-generated estimates to the target environment domain. The framework employs an adaptive ensemble of spatio-temporally consistent rewards to derive domain-grounded rewards in the training datasets, thus enabling effective offline learning of embodied agents in different environment domains. Experiments with the VirtualHome benchmark demonstrate that CoREN significantly outperforms other offline RL agents, and it also achieves comparable performance to state-of-the-art LLM-based agents with 8B parameters, despite CoREN having only 117M parameters for the agent policy network and using LLMs only for training."}
{"Title": "Self-Renewal Prompt Optimizing with Implicit Reasoning", "Abstract": "The effectiveness of Large Language Models (LLMs) relies on their capacity to understand instructions and generate human-like responses. However, aligning LLMs with complex human preferences remains a significant challenge due to the potential misinterpretation of user prompts. Current methods for aligning LLM behaviors fall into two categories: output optimization (such as RLHF, RLAIF, and DPO) and input optimization (like OPRO and BPO). While both approaches aim to guide LLMs towards generating responses that align with desired objectives, the labor-intensive and intentions-inconsistent data annotation, as well as the strict and tedious training supervision, make them struggle to yield optimal results across all models. To address these shortcomings, we introduce a novel self-renewal approach called Prompt Optimization with Implicit Reasoning (POIR). It consists of two key components: 1) a model-specific and self-recirculating data collection method that leverages self-evaluation to enhance prompts in accordance with the model{'}s intrinsic logits, and 2) a prompt rewrite schema that injects implicit reasoning for direct preference learning. Through self-renewal optimization, POIR refines LLM outputs to better align with human preferences across various LLMs and tasks, without relying on supervised fine-tuning. Extensive experiments on a range of LLMs and tasks demonstrate POIR{'}s superior performance. We believe this advancement offers a novel paradigm for developing LLMs that are more attuned to user intentions."}
{"Title": "Ruler: A Model-Agnostic Method to Control Generated Length for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The instruction-following ability of large language models enables humans to interact with AI agents in a natural way. However, when required to generate responses of a specific length, large language models often struggle to meet users{'} needs due to their inherent difficulty in accurately perceiving numerical constraints. To explore the ability of large language models to control the length of generated responses, we propose the Target Length Generation Task (TLG) and design two metrics, Precise Match (PM) and Flexible Match (FM) to evaluate the model{'}s performance in adhering to specified response lengths. Furthermore, we introduce a novel, model-agnostic approach called Ruler, which employs Meta Length Tokens (MLTs) to enhance the instruction-following ability of large language models under length-constrained instructions. Specifically, Ruler equips LLMs with the ability to generate responses of a specified length based on length constraints within the instructions. Moreover, Ruler can automatically generate appropriate MLT when length constraints are not explicitly provided, demonstrating excellent versatility and generalization. Comprehensive experiments show the effectiveness of Ruler across different LLMs on Target Length Generation Task, e.g., at All Level 27.97 average gain on PM, 29.57 average gain on FM. In addition, we conduct extensive ablation experiments to further substantiate the efficacy and generalization of Ruler. Our code and data is available on the internet."}
{"Title": "Women Are Beautiful, Men Are Leaders: Gender Stereotypes in Machine Translation and Language Modeling", "Abstract": "We present GEST {--} a new manually created dataset designed to measure gender-stereotypical reasoning in language models and machine translation systems. GEST contains samples for 16 gender stereotypes about men and women (e.g., Women are beautiful, Men are leaders) that are compatible with the English language and 9 Slavic languages. The definition of said stereotypes was informed by gender experts. We used GEST to evaluate English and Slavic masked LMs, English generative LMs, and machine translation systems. We discovered significant and consistent amounts of gender-stereotypical reasoning in almost all the evaluated models and languages. Our experiments confirm the previously postulated hypothesis that the larger the model, the more stereotypical it usually is."}
{"Title": "Recent Trends in Linear Text Segmentation: A Survey", "Abstract": "Linear Text Segmentation is the task of automatically tagging text documents with topic shifts, i.e. the places in the text where the topics change. A well-established area of research in Natural Language Processing, drawing from well-understood concepts in linguistic and computational linguistic research, the field has recently seen a lot of interest as a result of the surge of text, video, and audio available on the web, which in turn require ways of summarising and categorizing the mole of content for which linear text segmentation is a fundamental step. In this survey, we provide an extensive overview of current advances in linear text segmentation, describing the state of the art in terms of resources and approaches for the task. Finally, we highlight the limitations of available resources and of the task itself, while indicating ways forward based on the most recent literature and under-explored research directions."}
{"Title": "mPLUG-DocOwl 1.5: Unified Structure Learning for OCR-free Document Understanding", "Abstract": "Structure information is critical for understanding the semantics of text-rich images, such as documents, tables, and charts. Existing Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) for Visual Document Understanding are equipped with text recognition ability but lack general structure understanding abilities for text-rich document images. In this work, we emphasize the importance of structure information in Visual Document Understanding and propose Unified Structure Learning to boost the performance of MLLMs. Based on publicly available text-rich images, we build a comprehensive training set DocStruct4M to support structure-aware parsing tasks and multi-grained text localization tasks across 5 domains: document, webpage, table, chart, and natural image. To better encode structure information, we design a simple and effective vision-to-text module H-Reducer, which can not only maintain the layout information but also reduce the length of visual features by merging horizontal adjacent patches through convolution, enabling the LLM to understand high-resolution images more efficiently. Our model DocOwl 1.5 achieves state-of-the-art performance on 10 visual document understanding benchmarks. All codes, models, and datasets are publicly available at https://github.com/X-PLUG/mPLUG-DocOwl/tree/main/DocOwl1.5."}
{"Title": "Exploring Question Guidance and Answer Calibration for Visually Grounded Video Question Answering", "Abstract": "Video Question Answering (VideoQA) tasks require not only correct answers but also visual evidence. The {``}localize-then-answer{''} strategy, while enhancing accuracy and interpretability, faces challenges due to the lack of temporal localization labels in VideoQA datasets. Existing methods often train the models{'} localization capabilities indirectly using QA labels, leading to inaccurate localization. Moreover, our experiments show that despite high accuracy, current models depend too heavily on language shortcuts or spurious correlations with irrelevant visual context. To address these issues, we propose a Question-Guided and Answer-Calibrated TRansformer (QGAC-TR), which guides and calibrates localization using question and option texts without localization labels. Furthermore, we design two self-supervised learning tasks to further enhance the model{'}s refined localization capabilities. Extensive experiments on three public datasets focused on temporal and causal reasoning show that our model not only achieves accuracy comparable to large-scale pretrained models but also leads in localization aspects. Code will be available on GitHub."}
{"Title": "LoRAN: Improved Low-Rank Adaptation by a Non-Linear Transformation", "Abstract": "In this paper, we study parameter-efficient fine-tuning methods for large pre-trained models. Specifically, we improve LoRA approaches to alleviate the performance loss from the constrained adapter by introducing a non-linear transformation (call it LoRAN). For a better adaptation, we also design a new non-linear function to appropriately fit the accumulated weight updates. We test our method in multiple advanced large language models. Experimental results show that our LoRAN significantly outperforms a strong baseline on SAMSum and 20 Newsgroups tasks. Moreover, when a lower rank is applied, our approach even yields a 1.95-point improvement in the classification task."}
{"Title": "Large Language Models are Limited in Out-of-Context Knowledge Reasoning", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) possess extensive knowledge and strong capabilities in performing in-context reasoning. However, previous work challenges their out-of-context reasoning ability, i.e., the ability to infer information from their training data, instead of from the context or prompt. This paper focuses on a significant aspect of out-of-context reasoning: Out-of-Context Knowledge Reasoning (OCKR), which is to combine multiple knowledge to infer new knowledge. We designed a synthetic dataset with seven representative OCKR tasks to systematically assess the OCKR capabilities of LLMs. Using this dataset, we evaluated several LLMs and discovered that their proficiency in this aspect is limited, regardless of whether the knowledge is trained in a separate or adjacent training settings. Moreover, training the model to reason with reasoning examples does not result in significant improvement, while training the model to perform explicit knowledge retrieval helps for retrieving attribute knowledge but not the relation knowledge, indicating that the model{'}s limited OCKR capabilities are due to difficulties in knowledge retrieval. Furthermore, we treat cross-lingual knowledge transfer as a distinct form of OCKR, and evaluate this ability. Our results show that the evaluated model also exhibits limited ability in transferring knowledge across languages."}
{"Title": "BiKT: Enabling Bidirectional Knowledge Transfer Between Pretrained Models and Sequential Downstream Tasks", "Abstract": "Adapting pretrained models to downstream tasks is important in practical applications. Existing frameworks adapt from an initial pretrained model to each downstream task directly, but ignore the sequential nature of the downstream tasks and their feedback effect on the pretrained model. In this work, we propose a new framework, called BiKT, to enable bidirectional knowledge transfer between pretrained models and downstream tasks in rounds. We model each downstream task in the current round as a target task for adaptation and treat all the tasks in the previous rounds as source tasks for feedback. We design a feedback algorithm by multi-task learning over the labeled data of the source tasks, where task-specific prompts are plugged into the backbone network for decoupling task-exclusive knowledge from task-shared knowledge. We further utilize the good initiation of the new backbone network updated in the feedback phase and the trained prompts of the source tasks for adaptation. Evaluation over 9 GLUE datasets, 6 SuperGLUE datasets, and 8 other datasets using models with different pretraining levels and different parameter scales shows remarkable improvement in full-shot and few-shot adaptation settings."}
{"Title": "Double-Checker: Large Language Model as a Checker for Few-shot Named Entity Recognition", "Abstract": "Recently, few-shot Named Entity Recognition (NER) has attracted significant attention due to the high cost of obtaining high-quality labeled data. Decomposition-based methods have demonstrated remarkable performance on this task, which initially train a type-independent span detector and subsequently classify the detected spans based on their types. However, this framework has an evident drawback as a domain-agnostic detector cannot ensure the identification of only those entity spans that are specific to the target domain. To address this issue, we propose Double-Checker, which leverages collaboration between Large Language Models (LLMs) and small models. Specifically, we employ LLMs to verify candidate spans predicted by the small model and eliminate any spans that fall outside the scope of the target domain. Extensive experiments validate the effectiveness of our method, consistently yielding improvements over two baseline approaches. Our code is available at https://github.com/fanshu6hao/Double-Checker."}
{"Title": "Scaling Sentence Embeddings with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently gained significant interest due to their impressive results in various natural language tasks. However, their application to sentence embeddings is still under active research. In this work, we introduce PromptEOL, a simple and efficient method designed to enhance LLM performance on sentence embeddings with a one-word limitation. We further integrate PromptEOL with in-context learning and alignment to leverage LLMs in two settings: without fine-tuning and with fine-tuning. Our extensive experiments show that PromptEOL enables LLMs to generate superior sentence embeddings without fine-tuning, outperforming contrastive learning methods. Additionally, with fine-tuning, a 2.7B parameter model using PromptEOL surpasses the performance of a 4.8B parameter model from previous methods. We also analyze how scaling model parameters, from 125 million to 66 billion, impacts sentence embedding performance."}
{"Title": "Exploring the Relationship between In-Context Learning and Instruction Tuning", "Abstract": "In-Context Learning (ICL) and Instruction Tuning (IT) are two primary paradigms of adopting Large Language Models (LLMs) to downstream applications. However, they are significantly different. In ICL, a set of demonstrations is provided at the inference time, but the LLM{'}s parameters are not updated. In IT, a set of demonstrations is used to adjust the parameters of the LLM during training, but no demonstrations are provided at the inference time. Although a growing body of literature has explored ICL and IT, studies on these topics have largely been conducted in isolation, leading to a disconnect between these two paradigms. In this work, we explore the relationship between ICL and IT by examining how the hidden states of LLMs change in these two paradigms. Through carefully designed experiments conducted with LLaMA-2 and LLaMA-2-Chat (7B and 13B), we find that ICL and IT converge in LLM hidden states despite their apparent differences in implementation. Specifically, ICL changes an LLM{'}s hidden states as if its accompanying demonstrations were used to instructionally tune the model. Furthermore, the convergence between ICL and IT is largely contingent upon several factors related to the demonstration. Overall, this work offers a unique perspective to explore the connection between ICL and IT and sheds light on understanding the behaviors of LLMs."}
{"Title": "Granular Entity Mapper: Advancing Fine-grained Multimodal Named Entity Recognition and Grounding", "Abstract": "Multimodal Named Entity Recognition and Grounding (MNERG) aims to extract paired textual and visual entities from texts and images. It has been well explored through a two-step paradigm: initially identifying potential visual entities using object detection methods and then aligning the extracted textual entities with their corresponding visual entities. However, when it comes to fine-grained MNERG, the long-tailed distribution of textual entity categories and the performance of object detectors limit the effectiveness of traditional methods. Specifically, more detailed classification leads to many low-frequency categories, and existing object detection methods often fail to pinpoint subtle regions within images. To address these challenges, we propose the Granular Entity Mapper (GEM) framework. Firstly, we design a multi-granularity entity recognition module, followed by a reranking module based on the Multimodal Large Language Model (MLLM) to incorporate hierarchical information of entity categories, visual cues, and external textual resources collectively for accurate fine-grained textual entity recognition. Then, we utilize a pre-trained Large Visual Language Model (LVLM) as an implicit visual entity grounder that directly deduces relevant visual entity regions from the entire image without the need for bounding box training. Experimental results on the GMNER and FMNERG datasets demonstrate that our GEM framework achieves state-of-the-art results on the fine-grained content extraction task."}
{"Title": "JobFair: A Framework for Benchmarking Gender Hiring Bias in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The use of Large Language Models (LLMs) in hiring has led to legislative actions to protect vulnerable demographic groups. This paper presents a novel framework for benchmarking hierarchical gender hiring bias in Large Language Models (LLMs) for resume scoring, revealing significant issues of reverse gender hiring bias and overdebiasing. Our contributions are fourfold: Firstly, we introduce a new construct grounded in labour economics, legal principles, and critiques of current bias benchmarks: hiring bias can be categorized into two types: Level bias (difference in the average outcomes between demographic counterfactual groups) and Spread bias (difference in the variance of outcomes between demographic counterfactual groups); Level bias can be further subdivided into statistical bias (i.e. changing with non-demographic content) and taste-based bias (i.e. consistent regardless of non-demographic content). Secondly, the framework includes rigorous statistical and computational hiring bias metrics, such as Rank After Scoring (RAS), Rank-based Impact Ratio, Permutation Test, and Fixed Effects Model. Thirdly, we analyze gender hiring biases in ten state-of-the-art LLMs. Seven out of ten LLMs show significant biases against males in at least one industry. An industry-effect regression reveals that the healthcare industry is the most biased against males. Moreover, we found that the bias performance remains invariant with resume content for eight out of ten LLMs. This indicates that the bias performance measured in this paper might apply to other resume datasets with different resume qualities. Fourthly, we provide a user-friendly demo and resume dataset to support the adoption and practical use of the framework, which can be generalized to other social traits and tasks."}
{"Title": "Contrastive Token Learning with Similarity Decay for Repetition Suppression in Machine Translation", "Abstract": "For crosslingual conversation and trade, Neural Machine Translation (NMT) is pivotal yet faces persistent challenges with monotony and repetition in generated content. Traditional solutions that rely on penalizing text redundancy or token reoccurrence have shown limited efficacy, particularly for lengthy article and e-commerce descriptions with inherent redundancy, even with the advent of Large Language Models (LLMs). This paper investigates the underlying causes of textual repetition through the lens of information entropy, attributing the phenomenon to the elevated uncertainty within the input text. To address this, a novel algorithm named Contrastive Token Learning with Similarity Decay (CTSD) is introduced, which modulates the suppression of tokens dynamically, informed by varying attention weights and inter-token distances. Furthermore, an e-commerce dataset comprised of title texts of online real items is compiled and released susceptible to hallucination translations to benchmark the algorithm. Extensive evaluations demonstrate that CTSD significantly outperforms existing approaches in precision and generalizability. Additional online A/B testing underscores its practical value, showing marked improvements in user engagement and conversion. Notably, this method has been implemented with full traffic on eight multilingual sites of alibaba.com, the largest B2B e-commerce platform in the world."}
{"Title": "A Psycholinguistic Evaluation of Language Models' Sensitivity to Argument Roles", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Tending Towards Stability: Convergence Challenges in Small Language Models", "Abstract": "Increasing the number of parameters in language models is a common strategy to enhance their performance. However, smaller language models remain valuable due to their lower operational costs. Despite their advantages, smaller models frequently underperform compared to their larger counterparts, even when provided with equivalent data and computational resources. Specifically, their performance tends to degrade in the late pretraining phase. This is anecdotally attributed to their reduced representational capacity. Yet, the exact causes of this performance degradation remain unclear. We use the Pythia model suite to analyse the training dynamics that underlie this phenomenon. Across different model sizes, we investigate the convergence of the Attention and MLP activations to their final state and examine how the effective rank of their parameters influences this process. We find that nearly all layers in larger models stabilise early in training - within the first 20{\\%} - whereas layers in smaller models exhibit slower and less stable convergence, especially when their parameters have lower effective rank. By linking the convergence of layers{'} activations to their parameters{'} effective rank, our analyses can guide future work to address inefficiencies in the learning dynamics of small models."}
{"Title": "Be a Multitude to Itself: A Prompt Evolution Framework for Red Teaming", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have gained increasing attention for their remarkable capacity, alongside concerns about safety arising from their potential to produce harmful content. Red teaming aims to find prompts that could elicit harmful responses from LLMs, and is essential to discover and mitigate safety risks before real-world deployment. However, manual red teaming is both time-consuming and expensive, rendering it unscalable. In this paper, we propose RTPE, a scalable evolution framework to evolve red teaming prompts across both breadth and depth dimensions, facilitating the automatic generation of numerous high-quality and diverse red teaming prompts. Specifically, in-breadth evolving employs a novel enhanced in-context learning method to create a multitude of quality prompts, whereas in-depth evolving applies customized transformation operations to enhance both content and form of prompts, thereby increasing diversity. Extensive experiments demonstrate that RTPE surpasses existing representative automatic red teaming methods on both attack success rate and diversity. In addition, based on 4,800 red teaming prompts created by RTPE, we further provide a systematic analysis of 8 representative LLMs across 8 sensitive topics."}
{"Title": "Modeling News Interactions and Influence for Financial Market Prediction", "Abstract": "The diffusion of financial news into market prices is a complex process, making it challenging to evaluate the connections between news events and market movements. This paper introduces FININ (Financial Interconnected News Influence Network), a novel market prediction model that captures not only the links between news and prices but also the interactions among news items themselves. FININ effectively integrates multi-modal information from both market data and news articles. We conduct extensive experiments on two datasets, encompassing the S{\\&}P 500 and NASDAQ 100 indices over a 15-year period and over 2.7 million news articles. The results demonstrate FININ{'}s effectiveness, outperforming advanced market prediction models with an improvement of 0.429 and 0.341 in the daily Sharpe ratio for the two markets respectively. Moreover, our results reveal insights into the financial news, including the delayed market pricing of news, the long memory effect of news, and the limitations of financial sentiment analysis in fully extracting predictive power from news data."}
{"Title": "Multi-Stage Balanced Distillation: Addressing Long-Tail Challenges in Sequence-Level Knowledge Distillation", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have significantly advanced various natural language processing tasks, but deploying them remains computationally expensive. Knowledge distillation (KD) is a promising solution, enabling the transfer of capabilities from larger teacher LLMs to more compact student models. Particularly, sequence-level KD, which distills rationale-based reasoning processes instead of merely final outcomes, shows great potential in enhancing students{'} reasoning capabilities. However, current methods struggle with sequence-level KD under long-tailed data distributions, adversely affecting generalization on sparsely represented domains. We introduce the Multi-Stage Balanced Distillation (BalDistill) framework, which iteratively balances training data within a fixed computational budget. By dynamically selecting representative head domain examples and synthesizing tail domain examples, BalDistill achieves state-of-the-art performance across diverse long-tailed datasets, enhancing both the efficiency and efficacy of the distilled models."}
{"Title": "Are Large Vision Language Models up to the Challenge of Chart Comprehension and Reasoning", "Abstract": "Natural language is a powerful complementary modality of communication for data visualizations, such as bar and line charts. To facilitate chart-based reasoning using natural language, various downstream tasks have been introduced recently such as chart question answering, chart summarization, and fact-checking with charts. These tasks pose a unique challenge, demanding both vision-language reasoning and a nuanced understanding of chart data tables, visual encodings, and natural language instructions. Despite the recent success of Large Language Models (LLMs) across diverse NLP tasks, their abilities and limitations in the realm of data visualization remain under-explored, possibly due to their lack of multi-modal capabilities. To bridge the gap, this paper presents one of the first comprehensive evaluations of the recently developed large vision language models (LVLMs) for chart understanding and reasoning tasks. Our evaluation includes a comprehensive assessment of both closed and open-sourced LVLMs across five major chart reasoning tasks. Furthermore, we perform a qualitative evaluation of LVLMs{'} performance on a diverse range of charts, aiming to provide a thorough analysis. Our findings reveal that while LVLMs demonstrate impressive abilities in generating fluent texts covering high-level data insights, they also encounter common problems like hallucinations, factual errors, and data bias. We highlight the key strengths and limitations of LVLMs in chart comprehension tasks, offering insights for future research"}
{"Title": "HoneyComb: A Flexible LLM-Based Agent System for Materials Science", "Abstract": "The emergence of specialized large language models (LLMs) has shown promise in addressing complex tasks in materials science. Many LLMs, however, often struggle with the distinct complexities of materials science tasks, such as computational challenges, and rely heavily on outdated implicit knowledge, leading to inaccuracies and hallucinations. To address these challenges, we introduce HoneyComb, the first LLM-based agent system specifically designed for materials science. HoneyComb leverages a reliable, high-quality materials science knowledge base (MatSciKB) and a sophisticated tool hub (ToolHub) tailored specifically for materials science to enhance its reasoning and computational capabilities. MatSciKB is a curated, structured knowledge collection based on reliable literature, while ToolHub employs an Inductive Tool Construction method to generate, decompose, and refine API tools for materials science. Additionally, HoneyComb leverages a retriever module that adaptively selects the appropriate knowledge source or tools for specific tasks, thereby ensuring accuracy and relevance. Our results demonstrate that HoneyComb significantly outperforms baseline models across various tasks in materials science, effectively bridging the gap between current LLM capabilities and the specialized needs of this domain. Furthermore, our adaptable framework can be easily extended to other scientific domains, highlighting its potential for broad applicability in advancing scientific research and applications."}
{"Title": "Revealing COVID-19's Social Dynamics: Diachronic Semantic Analysis of Vaccine and Symptom Discourse on Twitter", "Abstract": "Social media is recognized as an important source for deriving insights into public opinion dynamics and social impacts due to the vast textual data generated daily and the {`}unconstrained{'} behavior of people interacting on these platforms. However, such analyses prove challenging due to the semantic shift phenomenon, where word meanings evolve over time. This paper proposes an unsupervised dynamic word embedding method to capture longitudinal semantic shifts in social media data without predefined anchor words. The method leverages word co-occurrence statistics and dynamic updating to adapt embeddings over time, addressing the challenges of data sparseness, imbalanced distributions, and synergistic semantic effects. Evaluated on a large COVID-19 Twitter dataset, the method reveals semantic evolution patterns of vaccine- and symptom-related entities across different pandemic stages, and their potential correlations with real-world statistics. Our key contributions include the dynamic embedding technique, empirical analysis of COVID-19 semantic shifts, and discussions on enhancing semantic shift modeling for computational social science research. This study enables capturing longitudinal semantic dynamics on social media to understand public discourse and collective phenomena."}
{"Title": "Divide and Conquer: Legal Concept-guided Criminal Court View Generation", "Abstract": "The Criminal Court View Generation task aims to produce explanations that inform judicial decisions. This necessitates a nuanced understanding of diverse legal concepts, such as Recidivism, Confess, and Robbery, which often coexist within cases, complicating holistic analysis. However, existing methods mainly rely on the generation capability of language models, without paying enough attention to the important legal concepts.To enhance the precision and depth of such explanations, we introduce Legal Concept-guided Criminal Court Views Generation (LeGen), a three-stage approach designed for iterative reasoning tailored to individual legal constructs.Specifically, in the first stage, we design a decomposer to divide the court views into focused sub-views, each anchored around a distinct legal concept. Next, a concept reasoning module generates targeted rationales by intertwining the deconstructed facts with their corresponding legal frameworks, ensuring contextually relevant interpretations.Finally, a verifier and a generator are employed to align the rationale with the case fact and obtain synthesized comprehensive and legally sound final court views, respectively.We evaluate LeGen by conducting extensive experiments on a real-world dataset and experimental results validate the effectiveness of our proposed model. Our codes are available at \\url{https://anonymous.4open.science/r/LeGen-5625}."}
{"Title": "Data Diversity Matters for Robust Instruction Tuning", "Abstract": "Recent works have shown that by curating high quality and diverse instruction tuning datasets, we can significantly improve instruction-following capabilities. However, creating such datasets is difficult and most works rely on manual curation or proprietary language models. Automatic data curation is difficult as it is still not clear how we can define diversity for instruction tuning, how diversity and quality depend on one other, and how we can optimize dataset quality and diversity. To resolve these issue, we propose a new algorithm, Quality-Diversity Instruction Tuning (QDIT). QDIT provides a simple method to simultaneously control dataset diversity and quality, allowing us to conduct an in-depth study on the effect of diversity and quality on instruction tuning performance. From this study we draw two key insights (1) there is a natural tradeoff between data diversity and quality and (2) increasing data diversity significantly improves the worst case instruction following performance, therefore improving robustness. We validate the performance of QDIT on several large scale instruction tuning datasets, where we find it can substantially improve worst and average case performance compared to quality-driven data selection."}
{"Title": "GE2PE: Persian End-to-End Grapheme-to-Phoneme Conversion", "Abstract": "Text-to-Speech (TTS) systems have made significant strides, enabling the generation of speech from grapheme sequences. However, for low-resource languages, these models still struggle to produce natural and intelligible speech. Grapheme-to-Phoneme conversion (G2P) addresses this challenge by enhancing the input sequence with phonetic information. Despite these advancements, existing G2P systems face limitations when dealing with Persian texts due to the complexity of Persian transcription. In this study, we focus on enriching resources for the Persian language. To achieve this, we introduce two novel G2P training datasets: one manually labeled and the other machine-generated. These datasets comprise over five million sentences alongside their corresponding phoneme sequences. Additionally, we propose two evaluation datasets tailored for Persian sub-tasks, including Kasre-Ezafe detection, homograph disambiguation, and handling out-of-vocabulary (OOV) words. To tackle the unique challenges of the Persian language, we develop a new sentence-level End-to-End (E2E) model leveraging a two-step training approach, as outlined in our paper, to maximize the impact of manually labeled data. The results show that our model surpasses the state-of-the-art performance by 1.86{\\%} in word error rate, 4.03{\\%} in Kasre-Ezafe detection recall, and 3.42{\\%} in homograph disambiguation accuracy."}
{"Title": "Characterizing LLM Abstention Behavior in Science QA with Context Perturbations", "Abstract": "The correct model response in the face of uncertainty is to abstain from answering a question so as not to mislead the user. In this work, we study the ability of LLMs to abstain from answering context-dependent science questions when provided insufficient or incorrect context. We probe model sensitivity in several settings: removing gold context, replacing gold context with irrelevant context, and providing additional context beyond what is given. In experiments on four QA datasets with six LLMs, we show that performance varies greatly across models, across the type of context provided, and also by question type; in particular, many LLMs seem unable to abstain from answering boolean questions using standard QA prompts. Our analysis also highlights the unexpected impact of abstention performance on QA task accuracy. Counter-intuitively, in some settings, replacing gold context with irrelevant context or adding irrelevant context to gold context can improve abstention performance in a way that results in improvements in task performance. Our results imply that changes are needed in QA dataset design and evaluation to more effectively assess the correctness and downstream impacts of model abstention."}
{"Title": "Plausibly Problematic Questions in Multiple-Choice Benchmarks for Commonsense Reasoning", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Cost-Efficient Subjective Task Annotation and Modeling through Few-Shot Annotator Adaptation", "Abstract": "In subjective NLP tasks, where a single ground truth does not exist, the inclusion of diverse annotators becomes crucial as their unique perspectives significantly influence the annotations. In realistic scenarios, the annotation budget often becomes the main determinant of the number of perspectives (i.e., annotators) included in the data and subsequent modeling. We introduce a novel framework for annotation collection and modeling in subjective tasks that aims to minimize the annotation budget while maximizing the predictive performance for each annotator. Our framework has a two-stage design: first, we rely on a small set of annotators to build a multitask model, and second, we augment the model for a new perspective by strategically annotating a few samples per annotator. To test our framework at scale, we introduce and release a unique dataset, Moral Foundations Subjective Corpus, of 2000 Reddit posts annotated by 24 annotators for moral sentiment. We demonstrate that our framework surpasses the previous SOTA in capturing the annotators{'} individual perspectives with as little as 25{\\%} of the original annotation budget on two datasets. Furthermore, our framework results in more equitable models, reducing the performance disparity among annotators."}
{"Title": "EDEN: Empathetic Dialogues for English Learning", "Abstract": "Dialogue systems have been used as conversation partners in English learning, but few have studied whether these systems improve learning outcomes. Student passion and perseverance, or grit, has been associated with language learning success. Recent work establishes that as students perceive their English teachers to be more supportive, their grit improves. Hypothesizing that the same pattern applies to English-teaching chatbots, we create EDEN, a robust open-domain chatbot for spoken conversation practice that provides empathetic feedback. To construct EDEN, we first train a specialized spoken utterance grammar correction model and a high-quality social chit-chat conversation model. We then conduct a preliminary user study with a variety of strategies for empathetic feedback. Our experiment suggests that using adaptive empathetic feedback leads to higher *perceived affective support*. Furthermore, elements of perceived affective support positively correlate with student grit."}
{"Title": "Language Models Still Struggle to Zero-shot Reason about Time Series", "Abstract": "Time series are critical for decision-making in fields like finance and healthcare. Their importance has driven a recent influx of works passing time series into language models, leading to non-trivial forecasting on some datasets. But it remains unknown whether non-trivial forecasting implies that language models can reason about time series. To address this gap, we generate a first-of-its-kind evaluation framework for time series reasoning, including formal tasks and a corresponding dataset of multi-scale time series paired with text captions across ten domains. Using these data, we probe whether language models achieve three forms of reasoning: (1) Etiological Reasoning{---}given an input time series, can the language model identify the scenario that most likely created it? (2) Question Answering{---}can a language model answer factual questions about time series? (3) Context-Aided Forecasting{--}does highly relevant textual context improve a language model{'}s time series forecasts? We find that otherwise highly-capable language models demonstrate surprisingly limited time series reasoning: they score marginally above random on etiological and question answering tasks (up to 30 percentage points worse than humans) and show modest success in using context to improve forecasting. These weakness showcase that time series reasoning is an impactful, yet deeply underdeveloped direction for language model research. We also make our datasets public to support further research in this direction."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Agent Learning through World Dynamics Modeling", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs), trained on vast amounts of internet data, have developed a broad understanding of the world, enhancing the decision-making capabilities of embodied agents. This success is largely due to the comprehensive and in-depth domain knowledge within their training datasets. However, the extent of this knowledge can vary across different domains, and existing methods often assume that LLMs have a complete understanding of their environment, overlooking potential gaps in their grasp of actual world dynamics. To address this gap, we introduce \\textbf{Di}scover, \\textbf{V}erify, and \\textbf{E}volve (DiVE), a framework that \\textbf{discovers} world dynamics from a small number of demonstrations, \\textbf{verifies} the correctness of these dynamics, and \\textbf{evolves} new, advanced dynamics tailored to the current situation. Through extensive evaluations, we analyze the impact of each component on performance and compare the automatically generated dynamics from with human-annotated world dynamics. Our results demonstrate that LLMs guided by can make better decisions, achieving rewards comparable to human players in the Crafter environment."}
{"Title": "NormTab: Improving Symbolic Reasoning in LLMs Through Tabular Data Normalization", "Abstract": "In recent years, Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in parsing textual data and generating code. However, their performance in tasks involving tabular data, especially those requiring symbolic reasoning, faces challenges due to the structural variance and inconsistency in table cell values often found in web tables. In this paper, we introduce NormTab, a novel framework aimed at enhancing the symbolic reasoning performance of LLMs by normalizing web tables. We study table normalization as a stand-alone, one-time preprocessing step using LLMs to support symbolic reasoning on tabular data. Our experimental evaluation, conducted on challenging web table datasets such as WikiTableQuestion and TabFact, demonstrates that leveraging NormTab significantly improves symbolic reasoning performance, showcasing the importance and effectiveness of web table normalization for enhancing LLM-based symbolic reasoning tasks."}
{"Title": "Zero-Resource Hallucination Prevention for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The prevalent use of large language models (LLMs) in various domains has drawn attention to the issue of {``}hallucination{''}, which refers to instances where LLMs generate factually inaccurate or ungrounded information. Existing techniques usually identify hallucinations post-generation that cannot prevent their occurrence and suffer from inconsistent performance due to the influence of the instruction format and model style. In this paper, we introduce a novel pre-detection self-evaluation technique, referred to as SELF-FAMILIARITY, which focuses on evaluating the model{'}s familiarity with the concepts present in the input instruction and withholding the generation of response in case of unfamiliar concepts under the zero-resource setting, where external ground-truth or background information is not available. We also propose a new dataset Concept-7 focusing on the hallucinations caused by limited inner knowledge. We validate SELF-FAMILIARITY across four different large language models, demonstrating consistently superior performance compared to existing techniques. Our findings propose a significant shift towards preemptive strategies for hallucination mitigation in LLM assistants, promising improvements in reliability, applicability, and interpretability."}
{"Title": "Measuring and Improving Attentiveness to Partial Inputs with Counterfactuals", "Abstract": "The inevitable appearance of spurious correlations in training datasets hurts the generalization of NLP models on unseen data. Previous work has found that datasets with paired inputs are prone to correlations between a specific part of the input (e.g., the hypothesis in NLI) and the label; consequently, models trained only on those outperform chance. Are these correlations picked up by models trained on the full input data? To address this question, we propose a new evaluation method, Counterfactual Attentiveness Test (CAT). CAT uses counterfactuals by replacing part of the input with its counterpart from a different example (subject to some restrictions), expecting an attentive model to change its prediction. Using CAT, we systematically investigate established supervised and in-context learning models on ten datasets spanning four tasks: natural language inference, reading comprehension, paraphrase detection, and visual {\\&} language reasoning. CAT reveals that reliance on such correlations is mainly data-dependent. Surprisingly, we find that GPT3 becomes less attentive with an increased number of demonstrations, while its accuracy on the test data improves. Our results demonstrate that augmenting training or demonstration data with counterfactuals is effective in improving models{'} attentiveness. We show that models{'} attentiveness measured by CAT reveals different conclusions from solely measuring correlations in data."}
{"Title": "LaRS: Latent Reasoning Skills for Chain-of-Thought Reasoning", "Abstract": "Chain-of-thought (CoT) prompting is a popular in-context learning (ICL) approach for large language models (LLMs), especially when tackling complex reasoning tasks. Traditional ICL approaches construct prompts using examples that contain questions similar to the input question. However, CoT prompting, which includes crucial intermediate reasoning steps (rationales) within its examples, necessitates selecting examples based on these rationales rather than the questions themselves. Existing methods require human experts or pre-trained LLMs to describe the skill, a high-level abstraction of rationales, to guide the selection. These methods, however, are often costly and difficult to scale. Instead, this paper introduces a new approach named Latent Reasoning Skills (LaRS) that employs unsupervised learning to create a latent space representation of rationales, with a latent variable called a reasoning skill. Concurrently, LaRS learns a reasoning policy to determine the required reasoning skill for a given question. Then the ICL examples are selected by aligning the reasoning skills between past examples and the question. This approach is theoretically grounded and compute-efficient, eliminating the need for auxiliary LLM inference or manual prompt design. Empirical results demonstrate that LaRS consistently outperforms SOTA skill-based selection methods, processing example banks four times faster, reducing LLM inferences during the selection stage by half, and showing greater robustness to sub-optimal example banks."}
{"Title": "TROPE: TRaining-Free Object-Part Enhancement for Seamlessly Improving Fine-Grained Zero-Shot Image Captioning", "Abstract": "Zero-shot inference, where pre-trained models perform tasks without specific training data, is an exciting emergent ability of large models like CLIP. Although there has been considerable exploration into enhancing zero-shot abilities in image captioning (IC) for popular datasets such as MSCOCO and Flickr8k, these approaches fall short with fine-grained datasets like CUB, FLO, UCM-Captions, and Sydney-Captions. These datasets require captions to discern between visually and semantically similar classes, focusing on detailed object parts and their attributes. To overcome this challenge, we introduce TRaining-Free Object-Part Enhancement (TROPE). TROPE enriches a base caption with additional object-part details using object detector proposals and natural language processing techniques. It complements rather than alters the base caption, allowing seamless integration with other captioning methods and offering users enhanced flexibility. Our evaluations show that TROPE consistently boosts performance across all tested zero-shot IC approaches and achieves state-of-the-art results on fine-grained IC datasets."}
{"Title": "The Craft of Selective Prediction: Towards Reliable Case Outcome Classification - An Empirical Study on European Court of Human Rights Cases", "Abstract": "In high-stakes decision-making tasks within legal NLP, such as Case Outcome Classification (COC), quantifying a model{'}s predictive confidence is crucial. Confidence estimation enables humans to make more informed decisions, particularly when the model{'}s certainty is low, or where the consequences of a mistake are significant. However, most existing COC works prioritize high task performance over model reliability. This paper conducts an empirical investigation into how various design choices{---}including pre-training corpus, confidence estimator and fine-tuning loss{---}affect the reliability of COC models within the framework of selective prediction. Our experiments on the multi-label COC task, focusing on European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) cases, highlight the importance of a diverse yet domain-specific pre-training corpus for better calibration. Additionally, we demonstrate that larger models tend to exhibit overconfidence, Monte Carlo dropout methods produce reliable confidence estimates, and confident error regularization effectively mitigates overconfidence. To our knowledge, this is the first systematic exploration of selective prediction in legal NLP. Our findings underscore the need for further research on enhancing confidence measurement and improving the trustworthiness of models in the legal domain."}
{"Title": "InfuserKI: Enhancing Large Language Models with Knowledge Graphs via Infuser-Guided Knowledge Integration", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved exceptional capabilities in open generation across various domains, yet they encounter difficulties with tasks that require intensive knowledge. To address these challenges, methods for integrating knowledge have been developed, which augment LLMs with domain-specific knowledge graphs through external modules. These approaches, however, face data inefficiency issues as they necessitate the processing of both known and unknown knowledge for fine-tuning. Thus, our research focuses on a novel problem: efficiently integrating unknown knowledge into LLMs without unnecessary overlap of known knowledge. A risk of introducing new knowledge is the potential forgetting of existing knowledge. To mitigate this risk, we propose the innovative InfuserKI framework. This framework employs transformer internal states to determine when to enrich LLM outputs with additional information, effectively preventing knowledge forgetting. Performance evaluations using the UMLS-2.5k and MetaQA domain knowledge graphs reveal that InfuserKI not only successfully integrates new knowledge but also outperforms state-of-the-art baselines, reducing knowledge forgetting by 9{\\%} and 6{\\%}, respectively."}
{"Title": "SummaCoz: A Dataset for Improving the Interpretability of Factual Consistency Detection for Summarization", "Abstract": "Summarization is an important application of Large Language Models (LLMs). When judging the quality of a summary, factual consistency holds a significant weight. Despite numerous efforts dedicated to building factual inconsistency detectors, the exploration of explanability remains limited among existing effort. In this study, we incorporate both human-annotated and model-generated natural language explanations elucidating how a summary deviates and thus becomes inconsistent with its source article. We build our explanation-augmented dataset on top of the widely used SummaC summarization consistency benchmark. Additionally, we develop an inconsistency detector that is jointly trained with the collected explanations. Our findings demonstrate that integrating explanations during training not only enables the model to provide rationales for its judgments but also enhances its accuracy significantly."}
{"Title": "Precision or Recall? An Analysis of Image Captions for Training Text-to-Image Generation Model", "Abstract": "Despite advancements in text-to-image models, generating images that precisely align with textual descriptions remains challenging due to misalignment in training data. In this paper, we analyze the critical role of caption precision and recall in text-to-image model training. Our analysis of human-annotated captions shows that both precision and recall are important for text-image alignment, but precision has a more significant impact. Leveraging these insights, we utilize Large Vision Language Models to generate synthetic captions for training. Models trained with these synthetic captions show similar behavior to those trained on human-annotated captions, underscores the potential for synthetic data in text-to-image training."}
{"Title": "Deciphering the Factors Influencing the Efficacy of Chain-of-Thought: Probability, Memorization, and Noisy Reasoning", "Abstract": "Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting has been shown to enhance the multi-step reasoning capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). However, debates persist about whether LLMs exhibit *abstract generalization* or rely on *shallow heuristics* when given CoT prompts. To understand the factors influencing CoT reasoning we provide a detailed case study of the symbolic reasoning task of decoding shift ciphers, where letters are shifted forward some number of steps in the alphabet. We analyze the pattern of results produced by three LLMs{---}GPT-4, Claude 3, and Llama 3.1{---}performing this task using CoT prompting. By focusing on a single relatively simple task, we are able to identify three factors that systematically affect CoT performance: the probability of the task{'}s expected output (probability), what the model has implicitly learned during pre-training (memorization), and the number of intermediate operations involved in reasoning (noisy reasoning). We show that these factors can drastically influence task accuracy across all three LLMs; e.g., when tested with GPT-4, varying the output{'}s probability of occurrence shifts accuracy from 26{\\%} to 70{\\%}. Overall, we conclude that CoT prompting performance reflects both memorization and a probabilistic version of genuine reasoning."}
{"Title": "Self-contradictory reasoning evaluation and detection", "Abstract": "In a plethora of recent work, large language models (LLMs) demonstrated impressive reasoning ability, but many proposed downstream reasoning tasks only focus on performance-wise evaluation. Two fundamental questions persist: 1) how consistent is the reasoning, and 2) can models detect unreliable reasoning? In this paper, we investigate self-contradictory (Self-Contra) reasoning, where the model reasoning does not support answers. To answer 1), we define and assess the Self-Contra rate across three datasets and delve into finer-grained categories of Self-Contra reasoning. We find that LLMs often contradict themselves in reasoning tasks involving contextual information understanding or commonsense. The model may generate correct answers by taking shortcuts in reasoning or overlooking contextual evidence, leading to compromised reasoning. For 2), we task the state-of-the-art model GPT-4 with identifying Self-Contra reasoning and finer-grained fallacies. We find that finer-grained aided detection can improve GPT-4{'}s ability to detect Self-Contra. However, it is only able to detect Self-Contra with a 52.2{\\%} F1 score, much lower compared to 66.7{\\%} for humans. Our results indicate that current LLMs lack the robustness necessary for reliable reasoning and we emphasize the urgent need for establishing best practices in comprehensive reasoning evaluations beyond pure performance-based metrics."}
{"Title": "Incorporating Precedents for Legal Judgement Prediction on European Court of Human Rights Cases", "Abstract": "Inspired by the legal doctrine of stare decisis, which leverages precedents (prior cases) for informed decision-making, we explore methods to integrate them into LJP models. To facilitate precedent retrieval, we train a retriever with a fine-grained relevance signal based on the overlap ratio of alleged articles between cases. We investigate two strategies to integrate precedents: direct incorporation at inference via label interpolation based on case proximity and during training via a precedent fusion module using a stacked-cross attention model. We employ joint training of the retriever and LJP models to address latent space divergence between them. Our experiments on LJP tasks from the ECHR jurisdiction reveal that integrating precedents during training coupled with joint training of the retriever and LJP model, outperforms models without precedents or with precedents incorporated only at inference, particularly benefiting sparser articles."}
{"Title": "Molecular Facts: Desiderata for Decontextualization in LLM Fact Verification", "Abstract": "Automatic factuality verification of large language model (LLM) generations is becoming more and more widely used to combat hallucinations. A major point of tension in the literature is the granularity of this fact-checking: larger chunks of text are hard to fact-check, but more atomic facts like propositions may lack context to interpret correctly. In this work, we assess the role of context in these atomic facts. We argue that fully atomic facts are not the right representation, and define two criteria for molecular facts: decontextuality, or how well they can stand alone, and minimality, or how little extra information is added to achieve decontexuality. We quantify the impact of decontextualization on minimality, then present a baseline methodology for generating molecular facts automatically, aiming to add the right amount of information. We compare against various methods of decontextualization and find that molecular facts balance minimality with fact verification accuracy in ambiguous settings."}
{"Title": "MoleculeQA: A Dataset to Evaluate Factual Accuracy in Molecular Comprehension", "Abstract": "Large language models are playing an increasingly significant role in molecular research, yet existing models often generate erroneous information. Traditional evaluations fail to assess a model{'}s factual correctness. To rectify this absence, we present MoleculeQA, a novel question answering (QA) dataset which possesses 62K QA pairs over 23K molecules. Each QA pair, composed of a manual question, a positive option and three negative options, has consistent semantics with a molecular description from authoritative corpus. MoleculeQA is not only the first benchmark to evaluate molecular factual correctness but also the largest molecular QA dataset. A comprehensive evaluation on MoleculeQA for existing molecular LLMs exposes their deficiencies in specific aspects and pinpoints crucial factors for molecular modeling. Furthermore, we employ MoleculeQA in reinforcement learning to mitigate model hallucinations, thereby enhancing the factual correctness of generated information."}
{"Title": "Sanitizing Large Language Models in Bug Detection with Data-Flow", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) show potential in code reasoning tasks, facilitating the customization of detecting bugs in software development. However, the hallucination effect can significantly compromise the reliability of bug reports. This work formulates a new schema of bug detection and presents a novel sanitization technique that detects false positives for hallucination mitigation. Our key idea is to enforce LLMs to emit data-flow paths in few-shot chain-of-thought prompting and validate them via the program-property decomposition. Specifically, we dissect data-flow paths into basic properties upon concise code snippets and leverage parsing-based analysis and LLMs for validation. Our approach averagely achieves 91.03{\\%} precision and 74.00{\\%} recall upon synthetic benchmarks and boosts the precision by 21.99{\\%} with the sanitization. The evaluation upon real-world Android malware applications also demonstrates the superiority over an industrial analyzer, surpassing the precision and recall by 15.36{\\%} and 3.61{\\%}, respectively."}
{"Title": "Scaling Behavior for Large Language Models regarding Numeral Systems: An Example using Pythia", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "When and Where Did it Happen? An Encoder-Decoder Model to Identify Scenario Context", "Abstract": "We introduce a neural architecture finetuned for the task of scenario context generation: The relevant location and time of an event or entity mentioned in text. Contextualizing information extraction helps to scope the validity of automated finings when aggregating them as knowledge graphs. Our approach uses a high-quality curated dataset of time and location annotations in a corpus of epidemiology papers to train an encoder-decoder architecture. We also explored the use of data augmentation techniques during training. Our findings suggest that a relatively small fine-tuned encoder-decoder model performs better than out-of-the-box LLMs and semantic role labeling parsers to accurate predict the relevant scenario information of a particular entity or event."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Incremental Summarization with Structured Representations", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) often struggle with processing extensive input contexts, which can lead to redundant, inaccurate, or incoherent summaries. Recent methods have used unstructured memory to incrementally process these contexts, but they still suffer from information overload due to the volume of unstructured data handled. In our study, we introduce structured knowledge representations (GU{\\_}json), which significantly improve summarization performance by 40{\\%} and 14{\\%} across two public datasets. Most notably, we propose the Chain-of-Key strategy (CoK{\\_}json) that dynamically updates or augments these representations with new information, rather than recreating the structured memory for each new source. This method further enhances performance by 7{\\%} and 4{\\%} on the datasets."}
{"Title": "Med-MoE: Mixture of Domain-Specific Experts for Lightweight Medical Vision-Language Models", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in general-purpose or domain-specific multimodal large language models (LLMs) have witnessed remarkable progress for medical decision-making. However, they are designated for specific classification or generative tasks, and require model training or finetuning on large-scale datasets with sizeable parameters and tremendous computing, hindering their clinical utility across diverse resource-constrained scenarios in practice. In this paper, we propose a novel and lightweight framework Med-MoE (Mixture-of-Experts) that tackles both discriminative and generative multimodal medical tasks. The learning of Med-MoE consists of three steps: multimodal medical alignment, Instruction tuning and routing, and domain-specific MoE tuning. After aligning multimodal medical images with LLM tokens, we then enable the model for different multimodal medical tasks with instruction tuning, together with a trainable router tailored for expert selection across input modalities. Finally, the model is tuned by integrating the router with multiple domain-specific experts, which are selectively activated and further empowered by meta experts. Comprehensive experiments on both open- and close-end medical question answering (Med-VQA) and image classification tasks across datasets such as VQA-RAD, SLAKE and Path-VQA demonstrate that our model can achieve performance superior to or on par with state-of-the-art baselines, while only requiring approximately 30{\\%}-50{\\%} of activated model parameters. Extensive analysis and ablations corroborate the effectiveness and practical utility of our method."}
{"Title": "Multiple Knowledge-Enhanced Interactive Graph Network for Multimodal Conversational Emotion Recognition", "Abstract": "Multimodal Emotion Recognition in Conversations (ERC) aims to identify emotions in conversational videos. Current efforts focus on modeling both context-sensitive and speaker-sensitive dependencies and multimodal fusion. Despite the progress, models in Multimodal ERC (MERC) still struggle due to a lack of CommonSense Knowledge (CSK). In contrast, models in textual ERC typically employ CSK to enhance emotion inference. However, in multimodal scenarios, relying solely on textual CSK while neglecting visual CSK may hinder the understanding of visual emotional cues. To address this, we introduce a novel approach called Multiple Knowledge Enhanced Interactive Graph Network (MKE-IGN) to integrate multiple knowledge, such as textual and visual CSK, into the edge representations, thereby facilitating the modeling of relations between utterances and different types of CSK. Furthermore, considering that irrelevant CSK might be retained as noise, MKE-IGN adaptively selects this CSK guided by the mood-congruent effect and refines it based on contexts. Experimental results show that MKE-IGN outperforms state-of-the-art methods on two popular datasets."}
{"Title": "AutoRAG-HP: Automatic Online Hyper-Parameter Tuning for Retrieval-Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in Large Language Models have transformed ML/AI development, necessitating a reevaluation of AutoML principles for the Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) systems. To address the challenges of hyper-parameter optimization and online adaptation in RAG, we propose the AutoRAG-HP framework, which formulates the hyper-parameter tuning as an online multi-armed bandit (MAB) problem and introduces a novel two-level Hierarchical MAB (Hier-MAB) method for efficient exploration of large search spaces. We conduct extensive experiments on tuning hyper-parameters, such as top-k retrieved documents, prompt compression ratio, and embedding methods, using the ALCE-ASQA and Natural Questions datasets. Our evaluation from jointly optimization all three hyper-parameters demonstrate that MAB-based online learning methods can achieve Recall@5 $\\approx 0.8$ for scenarios with prominent gradients in search space, using only {\\textasciitilde}20{\\%} of the LLM API calls required by the Grid Search approach. Additionally, the proposed Hier-MAB approach outperforms other baselines in more challenging optimization scenarios. The code will be made available at https://aka.ms/autorag."}
{"Title": "Unleashing the Potential of Large Language Models through Spectral Modulation", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive capabilities across various domains, garnering significant attention from both academia and industry. However, enhancing the performance of LLMs typically requires scaling up model sizes or fine-tuning with additional datasets, which results in substantial computational costs. This paper poses an intriguing question: Can we improve the performance of LLMs without additional training? Drawing inspiration from signal processing principles, which suggest that noise often resides in high-frequency components while low-frequency components carry the essence of signals, we propose uncovering untapped potential in LLMs from a frequency perspective. We hypothesize that the high-frequency components in the weight matrices of LLMs{'} linear layers may conceal noise that interferes with predictive accuracy. Therefore, we propose conducting spectral modulation in the parameter space of LLMs, which can seamlessly integrate with various models in a plug-and-play manner. Extensive experiments have demonstrated the superiority of our approach, with spectral modulation yielding an average performance improvement of up to 10.12{\\%}."}
{"Title": "LinguAlchemy: Fusing Typological and Geographical Elements for Unseen Language Generalization", "Abstract": "Pretrained language models (PLMs) have shown remarkable generalization toward multiple tasks and languages. Nonetheless, the generalization of PLMs towards unseen languages is poor, resulting in significantly worse language performance, or even generating nonsensical responses that are comparable to a random baseline. This limitation has been a longstanding problem of PLMs raising the problem of diversity and equal access to language modeling technology. In this work, we solve this limitation by introducing LinguAlchemy, a regularization technique that incorporates various aspects of languages covering typological, geographical, and phylogenetic constraining the resulting representation of PLMs to better characterize the corresponding linguistics constraints. LinguAlchemy significantly improves the accuracy performance of mBERT and XLM-R on unseen languages by {\\textasciitilde}18{\\%} and {\\textasciitilde}2{\\%}, respectively compared to fully finetuned models and displaying a high degree of unseen language generalization. We further introduce AlchemyScale and AlchemyTune, extension of LinguAlchemy which adjusts the linguistic regularization weights automatically, alleviating the need for hyperparameter search. LinguAlchemy enables better cross-lingual generalization to unseen languages which is vital for better inclusivity and accessibility of PLMs."}
{"Title": "QUEST: Efficient Extreme Multi-Label Text Classification with Large Language Models on Commodity Hardware", "Abstract": "Extreme multi-label text classification (EMTC) involves predicting multiple labels from a vast pool of candidates based on a user{'}s textual query. While traditional BERT-based methods have shown limited success, large language models (LLMs) have brought new possibilities. It is promising to leverage their remarkable comprehension ability to understand textual queries. However, implementing LLMs is non-trivial for two main reasons. Firstly, real-world EMTC datasets can be extremely large, with candidate product pairs reaching up to ten million in real-world scenarios, which poses significant challenges in data ingestion. Secondly, the large size of LLMs makes computation and memory demands prohibitive for EMTC applications. To this end, we propose QUEST, a Quantized and Efficient Learning with Sampling Technique. QUEST includes a tailored hash sampling module that reduces the data volume to one-fourth of its original size. Additionally, we perform compressive fine-tuning LLMs with only twenty thousand trainable parameters, largely reducing computational requirements. Extensive experiments demonstrate that QUEST outperforms existing methods while requiring fewer computational resources, unlocking efficient EMTC on commodity hardware such as a single Nvidia RTX 3090 GPU with 24 GB of memory."}
{"Title": "UniSumEval: Towards Unified, Fine-grained, Multi-dimensional Summarization Evaluation for LLMs", "Abstract": "Existing benchmarks for summarization quality evaluation often lack diverse input scenarios, focus on narrowly defined dimensions (e.g., faithfulness), and struggle with subjective and coarse-grained annotation schemes. To address these shortcomings, we create UniSumEval benchmark, which extends the range of input context (e.g., domain, length) and provides fine-grained, multi-dimensional annotations. We use AI assistance in data creation, identifying potentially hallucinogenic input texts, and also helping human annotators reduce the difficulty of fine-grained annotation tasks. With UniSumEval, we benchmark nine latest language models as summarizers, offering insights into their performance across varying input contexts and evaluation dimensions. Furthermore, we conduct a thorough comparison of SOTA automated summary evaluators. Our benchmark data will be available at https://github.com/DISL-Lab/UniSumEval-v1.0."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Arguments Recognition for Financial Mathematical Reasoning over Hybrid Data", "Abstract": "Mathematical question answering over long-form documents is challenging across domains like finance or Wikipedia due to the abundance of candidate arguments within evidence, which complicates recognizing proper arguments for mathematical reasoning and poses hard to learning. In this paper, we propose an approach for training a generator to improve argument recognition. Our method enhances the probabilities of proper arguments in a reasoning program generation so that the arguments comprising the ground truth have higher weights. The proposed approach consists of an argument aggregator to model the probabilities in each candidate generation and an argument set loss to compute the cross-entropy between that probability and the candidates{'} existence in the ground truth in terms of the argument set. In our experiments, we show performance improvements of 3.62{\\%} and 3.98{\\%} in execution accuracy and program accuracy, respectively, over the existing FinQANet model based on a financial mathematical QA dataset. Also, we observed that the similarity of argument sets between the generated program and the ground truth improved by about 2.9{\\%}, indicating a mitigation of the misrecognition problem."}
{"Title": "Bi-DCSpell: A Bi-directional Detector-Corrector Interactive Framework for Chinese Spelling Check", "Abstract": "Chinese Spelling Check (CSC) aims to detect and correct potentially misspelled characters in Chinese sentences. Naturally, it involves the detection and correction subtasks, which interact with each other dynamically. Such interactions are bi-directional, i.e., the detection result would help reduce the risk of over-correction and under-correction while the knowledge learnt from correction would help prevent false detection. Current CSC approaches are of two types: correction-only or single-directional detection-to-correction interactive frameworks. Nonetheless, they overlook the bi-directional interactions between detection and correction. This paper aims to fill the gap by proposing a Bi-directional Detector-Corrector framework for CSC (Bi-DCSpell). Notably, Bi-DCSpell contains separate detection and correction encoders, followed by a novel interactive learning module facilitating bi-directional feature interactions between detection and correction to improve each other{'}s representation learning. Extensive experimental results demonstrate a robust correction performance of Bi-DCSpell on widely used benchmarking datasets while possessing a satisfactory detection ability."}
{"Title": "CLongEval: A Chinese Benchmark for Evaluating Long-Context Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Developing Large Language Models (LLMs) with robust long-context capabilities has been the recent research focus, resulting in the emergence of long-context LLMs proficient in Chinese. However, the evaluation of these models remains underdeveloped due to a lack of benchmarks. To address this gap, we present CLongEval, a comprehensive Chinese benchmark for evaluating long-context LLMs. CLongEval is characterized by three key features: (1) Sufficient data volume, comprising 7 distinct tasks and 7,267 examples; (2) Broad applicability, accommodating to models with context windows size from 1K to 100K; (3) High quality, with over 2,000 manually annotated question-answer pairs in addition to the automatically constructed labels. With CLongEval, we undertake a comprehensive assessment of 6 open-source long-context LLMs and 2 leading commercial counterparts that feature both long-context abilities and proficiency in Chinese. We also provide in-depth analysis based on the empirical results, trying to shed light on the critical capabilities that present challenges in long-context settings. The dataset, evaluation scripts, and model outputs will be released."}
{"Title": "Guided Profile Generation Improves Personalization with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "In modern commercial systems, including Recommendation, Ranking, and E-Commerce platforms, there is a trend towards improving customer experiences by incorporating Personalization context as input into Large Language Models (LLM). However, LLMs often struggle to effectively parse and utilize sparse and complex personal context without additional processing or contextual enrichment, underscoring the need for more sophisticated context understanding mechanisms. In this work, we propose Guided Profile Generation (GPG), a general method designed to generate personal profiles in natural language. As is observed, intermediate guided profile generation enables LLMs to summarize, and extract the important, distinctive features from the personal context into concise, descriptive sentences, precisely tailoring their generation more closely to an individual{'}s unique habits and preferences. Our experimental results show that GPG improves LLM{'}s personalization ability across different tasks, for example, it increases 37{\\%} accuracy in predicting personal preference compared to directly feeding the LLMs with raw personal context."}
{"Title": "mABC: Multi-Agent Blockchain-inspired Collaboration for Root Cause Analysis in Micro-Services Architecture", "Abstract": "Root cause analysis (RCA) in Micro-services architecture (MSA) with escalating complexity encounters complex challenges in maintaining system stability and efficiency due to fault propagation and circular dependencies among nodes. Diverse root cause analysis faults require multi-agents with diverse expertise. To mitigate the hallucination problem of large language models (LLMs), we design blockchain-inspired voting to ensure the reliability of the analysis by using a decentralized decision-making process. To avoid non-terminating loops led by common circular dependency in MSA, we objectively limit steps and standardize task processing through Agent Workflow. We propose a pioneering framework, multi-Agent Blockchain-inspired Collaboration for root cause analysis in micro-services architecture (mABC), where multiple agents based on the powerful LLMs follow Agent Workflow and collaborate in blockchain-inspired voting. Specifically, seven specialized agents derived from Agent Workflow each provide valuable insights towards root cause analysis based on their expertise and the intrinsic software knowledge of LLMs collaborating within a decentralized chain. Our experiments on the AIOps challenge dataset and a newly created Train-Ticket dataset demonstrate superior performance in identifying root causes and generating effective resolutions. The ablation study further highlights Agent Workflow, multi-agent, and blockchain-inspired voting is crucial for achieving optimal performance. mABC offers a comprehensive automated root cause analysis and resolution in micro-services architecture and significantly improves the IT Operation domain."}
{"Title": "Taking a Deep Breath: Enhancing Language Modeling of Large Language Models with Sentinel Tokens", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have shown promising efficacy across various tasks, becoming powerful tools in numerous aspects of human life. However, Transformer-based LLMs suffer a performance degradation when modeling long-term contexts due to they discard some information to reduce computational overhead. In this work, we propose a simple yet effective method to enable LLMs to take a deep breath, encouraging them to summarize information contained within discrete text chunks. Specifically, we segment the text into multiple chunks and insert special token {\\textless}SR{\\textgreater} at the end of each chunk. We then modify the attention mask to integrate the chunk{'}s information into the corresponding {\\textless}SR{\\textgreater} token. This facilitates LLMs to interpret information not only from historical individual tokens but also from the {\\textless}SR{\\textgreater} token, aggregating the chunk{'}s semantic information. Experiments on language modeling and out-of-domain downstream tasks validate the superiority of our approach."}
{"Title": "Reward Modeling Requires Automatic Adjustment Based on Data Quality", "Abstract": "In Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF), the reward model plays a crucial role in aligning language model outputs with human values. The human preference data used to train the reward model consists of a prompt and a response pair, with humans annotating which response better aligns with human value preferences. Due to the complexity and subjectivity of the annotation task, multiple organizations including OpenAI and Anthropic report significant noise in the human preference datasets, leading to instability and deviation in reward model training from human values. We discover that the difference in scores assigned to response pairs by the reward model effectively indicates the quality of data, and data of varying qualities show significant distinctions in reward model training. We introduce a method that automatically adjusts reward modeling based on data quality, reducing the impact of noise and making full use of dataset. Experiments on multiple human preference datasets demonstrate that our method stabilizes reward model training and significantly enhances the alignment performance of RLHF."}
{"Title": "LOOK-M: Look-Once Optimization in KV Cache for Efficient Multimodal Long-Context Inference", "Abstract": "Long-context Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) demand substantial computational resources for inference as the growth of their multimodal Key-Value (KV) cache, in response to increasing input lengths, challenges memory and time efficiency. Unlike single-modality LLMs that manage only textual contexts, the KV cache of long-context MLLMs includes representations from multiple images with temporal and spatial relationships and related textual contexts. The predominance of image tokens means traditional optimizations for LLMs{'} KV caches are unsuitable for multimodal long-context settings, and no prior works have addressed this challenge.In this work, we introduce **LOOK-M**, a pioneering, fine-tuning-free approach that efficiently reduces the multimodal KV cache size while maintaining performance comparable to a full cache. We observe that during prompt prefill, the model prioritizes more textual attention over image features, and based on the multimodal interaction observation, a new proposed text-prior method is explored to compress the KV cache. Furthermore, to mitigate the degradation of image contextual information, we propose several compensatory strategies using KV pairs merging. **LOOK-M** demonstrates that with a significant reduction in KV Cache memory usage, such as reducing it by **80{\\%}** in some cases, it not only achieves approximately **1.3x** faster decoding but also maintains or even **enhances** performance across a variety of long context multimodal tasks."}
{"Title": "The Fall of ROME: Understanding the Collapse of LLMs in Model Editing", "Abstract": "Despite significant progress in model editing methods, their application in real-world scenarios remains challenging as they often cause large language models (LLMs) to collapse. Among them, ROME is particularly concerning, as it could disrupt LLMs with only a single edit. In this paper, we study the root causes of such collapse. Through extensive analysis, we identify two primary factors that contribute to the collapse: i) inconsistent handling of prefixed and unprefixed keys in the parameter update equation may result in very small denominators, causing excessively large parameter updates; ii) the subject of collapse cases is usually the first token, whose unprefixed key distribution significantly differs from the prefixed key distribution in autoregressive transformers, causing the aforementioned issue to materialize. To validate our findings, we propose a simple yet effective approach: uniformly using prefixed keys during editing phase and adding prefixes during testing phase to ensure the consistency between training and testing. The experimental results show that the proposed solution can prevent model collapse while maintaining the effectiveness of the edits."}
{"Title": "OneGen: Efficient One-Pass Unified Generation and Retrieval for LLMs", "Abstract": "Despite the recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs), which have significantly enhanced the generative capabilities for various NLP tasks, LLMs still face limitations in directly handling retrieval tasks. However, many practical applications demand the seamless integration of both retrieval and generation. This paper introduces a novel and efficient One-pass Generation and retrieval framework (OneGen), designed to improve LLMs{'} performance on tasks that require both generation and retrieval. The proposed framework bridges the traditionally separate training approaches for generation and retrieval by incorporating retrieval tokens generated autoregressively. This enables a single LLM to handle both tasks simultaneously in a unified forward pass. We conduct experiments on two distinct types of composite tasks, RAG and Entity Linking, to validate the pluggability, effectiveness, and efficiency of OneGen in training and inference. Furthermore, our results show that integrating generation and retrieval within the same context preserves the generative capabilities of LLMs while improving retrieval performance. To the best of our knowledge, OneGen is the first to enable LLMs to conduct vector retrieval during the generation."}
{"Title": "Self-Evolution Fine-Tuning for Policy Optimization", "Abstract": "The alignment of large language models (LLMs) is crucial not only for unlocking their potential in specific tasks but also for ensuring that responses meet human expectations and adhere to safety and ethical principles. To address the challenges of current alignment methodologies, we introduce self-evolution fine-tuning (SEFT) for LLM alignment, aiming to eliminate the need for annotated samples while retaining the stability and efficiency of SFT. SEFT first trains an adaptive reviser to elevate low-quality responses while maintaining high-quality ones. The reviser then gradually guides the policy{'}s optimization by fine-tuning it with enhanced responses. The method excels in utilizing unlimited unannotated data to optimize policies via supervised fine-tuning. Our experiments on AlpacaEval and MT-Bench demonstrate the effectiveness of SEFT and its advantages over existing alignment techniques."}
{"Title": "Deeper Insights Without Updates: The Power of In-Context Learning Over Fine-Tuning", "Abstract": "Fine-tuning and in-context learning (ICL) are two prevalent methods in imbuing large language models with task-specific knowledge. It is commonly believed that fine-tuning can surpass ICL given sufficient training samples as it allows the model to adjust its internal parameters based on the data. However, this paper presents a counterintuitive finding: For tasks with implicit patterns, ICL captures these patterns significantly better than fine-tuning. We developed several datasets featuring implicit patterns, such as sequences determining answers through parity or identifying reducible terms in calculations. We then evaluated the models{'} understanding of these patterns under both fine-tuning and ICL across models ranging from 0.5B to 7B parameters. The results indicate that models employing ICL can quickly grasp deep patterns and significantly improve accuracy. In contrast, fine-tuning, despite utilizing thousands of times more training samples than ICL, achieved only limited improvements. We also proposed circuit shift theory from a mechanistic interpretability{'}s view to explain why ICL wins."}
{"Title": "Adaptive Feature-based Low-Rank Compression of Large Language Models via Bayesian Optimization", "Abstract": "In recent years, large language models (LLMs) have driven advances in natural language processing. Still, their growing scale has increased the computational burden, necessitating a balance between efficiency and performance. Low-rank compression, a promising technique, reduces non-essential parameters by decomposing weight matrices into products of two low-rank matrices. Yet, its application in LLMs has not been extensively studied. The key to low-rank compression lies in low-rank factorization and low-rank dimensions allocation. To address the challenges of low-rank compression in LLMs, we conduct empirical research on the low-rank characteristics of large models. We propose a low-rank compression method suitable for LLMs. This approach involves precise estimation of feature distributions through pooled covariance matrices and a Bayesian optimization strategy for allocating low-rank dimensions. Experiments on the LLaMA-2 models demonstrate that our method outperforms existing strong structured pruning and low-rank compression techniques in maintaining model performance at the same compression ratio."}
{"Title": "Emosical: An Emotion-Annotated Musical Theatre Dataset", "Abstract": "This paper presents Emosical, a multimodal open-source dataset of musical films. Emosical comprises video, vocal audio, text, and character identity paired samples with annotated emotion tags. Emosical provides rich emotion annotations for each sample by inferring the background story of the characters. To achieve this, we leverage the musical theatre script, which contains the characters{'} complete background stories and narrative contexts. The annotation pipeline includes feeding the speaking character, text, global persona, and context of the dialogue and song track into a large language model. To verify the effectiveness of our tagging scheme, we perform an ablation study by bypassing each step of the pipeline. The ablation results show the usefulness of each component in generating accurate emotion tags. A subjective test is conducted to compare the generated tags of each ablation result. We also perform a statistical analysis to find out the global characteristics of the collected emotion tags. Emosical would enable expressive synthesis and tagging of the speech and singing voice in the musical theatre domain in future research. Emosical is publicly available at https://github.com/gillosae/emosical."}
{"Title": "Inference-Time Language Model Alignment via Integrated Value Guidance", "Abstract": "Large language models are typically fine-tuned to align with human preferences, but tuning large models is computationally intensive and complex. In this work, we introduce **Integrated Value Guidance (IVG)**, a method that uses implicit and explicit value functions to guide language model decoding at token and chunk-level respectively, efficiently aligning large language models purely at inference time.This approach circumvents the complexities of direct fine-tuning and outperforms traditional methods.Empirically, we demonstrate the versatility of IVG across various tasks. In controlled sentiment generation and summarization tasks, our method significantly improves the alignment of large models using inference-time guidance from **gpt2**-based value functions. Moreover, in a more challenging instruction-following benchmark AlpacaEval 2.0, we show that both specifically tuned and off-the-shelf value functions greatly improve the length-controlled win rates of large models against gpt-4-turbo (e.g., 19.51 {\\%} $\\rightarrow 26.51\\%$ for **Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2** and 25.58 {\\%} $\\rightarrow 33.75 \\%$ for **Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1** with Tulu guidance)."}
{"Title": "TongGu: Mastering Classical Chinese Understanding with Knowledge-Grounded Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Classical Chinese is a gateway to the rich heritage and wisdom of ancient China, yet its complexities pose formidable comprehension barriers for most modern people without specialized knowledge. While Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable capabilities in Natural Language Processing (NLP), they struggle with Classical Chinese Understanding (CCU), especially in data-demanding and knowledge-intensive tasks. In response to this dilemma, we propose \\textbf{TongGu} (mean understanding ancient and modern), the first CCU-specific LLM, underpinned by three core contributions. First, we construct a two-stage instruction-tuning dataset ACCN-INS derived from rich classical Chinese corpora, aiming to unlock the full CCU potential of LLMs. Second, we propose Redundancy-Aware Tuning (RAT) to prevent catastrophic forgetting, enabling TongGu to acquire new capabilities while preserving its foundational knowledge. Third, we present a CCU Retrieval-Augmented Generation (CCU-RAG) technique to reduce hallucinations based on knowledge-grounding. Extensive experiments across 24 diverse CCU tasks validate TongGu{'}s superior ability, underscoring the effectiveness of RAT and CCU-RAG. The model and dataset are available at \\url{https://github.com/SCUT-DLVCLab/TongGu-LLM}."}
{"Title": "NegotiationToM: A Benchmark for Stress-testing Machine Theory of Mind on Negotiation Surrounding", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have sparked substantial interest and debate concerning their potential emergence of Theory of Mind (ToM) ability. Theory of mind evaluations currently focuses on testing models using machine-generated data or game settings prone to shortcuts and spurious correlations, which lacks evaluation of machine ToM ability in real-world human interaction scenarios. This poses a pressing demand to develop new real-world scenario benchmarks. We introduce NegotiationToM, a new benchmark designed to stress-test machine ToM in real-world negotiation surrounding covered multi-dimensional mental states (i.e., desires, beliefs, and intentions). Our benchmark builds upon the Belief-Desire-Intention (BDI) agent modeling theory and conducts the necessary empirical experiments to evaluate large language models. Our findings demonstrate that NegotiationToM is challenging for state-of-the-art LLMs, as they consistently perform significantly worse than humans, even when employing the chain-of-thought (CoT) method."}
{"Title": "A Robust Dual-debiasing VQA Model based on Counterfactual Causal Effect", "Abstract": "Traditional VQA models are inherently vulnerable to language bias, resulting in a significant performance drop when encountering out-of-distribution datasets. The conventional VQA models suffer from language bias that indicates a spurious correlation between textual questions and answers. Given the outstanding effectiveness of counterfactual causal inference in eliminating bias, we propose a model agnostic dual-debiasing framework based on Counterfactual Causal Effect (DCCE), which explicitly models two types of language bias(i.e., shortcut and distribution bias) by separate branches under the counterfactual inference framework. The effects of both types ofbias on answer prediction can be effectively mitigated by subtracting direct effect of textual questions on answers from total effect ofvisual questions on answers. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed DCCE framework significantly reduces language biasand achieves state-of-the-art performance on the benchmark datasets without requiring additional augmented data. Our code is available inhttps://github.com/sxycyck/dcce."}
{"Title": "PyramidCodec: Hierarchical Codec for Long-form Music Generation in Audio Domain", "Abstract": "Generating well-structured long music compositions, spanning several minutes, remains a challenge due to inefficient representation and the lack of structured representation. In this paper, we propose PyramidCodec, a hierarchical discrete representation of audio, for long audio-domain music generation. Specifically, we employ residual vector quantization on different levels of features to obtain the hierarchical discrete representation. The highest level of features has the largest hop size, resulting in the most compact token sequence. The quantized higher-level representation is up-sampled and combined with lower-level features to apply residual vector quantization and obtain lower-level discrete representations. Furthermore, we design a hierarchical training strategy to ensure that the details are gradually added with more levels of tokens. By performing hierarchical tokenization, the overall token sequence represents information at various scales, facilitating long-context modeling in music and enabling the generation of well-structured compositions. The experimental results demonstrate that our proposed PyramidCodec achieves competitive performance in terms of reconstruction quality and token per second (TPS). By enabling ultra-long music modeling at the lowest level, the proposed approach facilitates training a language model that can generate well-structured long-form music for up to 3 minutes, whose quality is further demonstrated by subjective and objective evaluations. The samples can be found at \\url{https://pyramidcodec.github.io/}."}
{"Title": "Beyond Persuasion: Towards Conversational Recommender System with Credible Explanations", "Abstract": "With the aid of large language models, current conversational recommender system (CRS) has gaining strong abilities to persuade users to accept recommended items. While these CRSs are highly persuasive, they can mislead users by incorporating incredible information in their explanations, ultimately damaging the long-term trust between users and the CRS. To address this, we propose a simple yet effective method, called PC-CRS, to enhance the credibility of CRS{'}s explanations during persuasion. It guides the explanation generation through our proposed credibility-aware persuasive strategies and then gradually refines explanations via post-hoc self-reflection. Experimental results demonstrate the efficacy of PC-CRS in promoting persuasive and credible explanations. Further analysis reveals the reason behind current methods producing incredible explanations and the potential of credible explanations to improve recommendation accuracy."}
{"Title": "Revisiting Query Variation Robustness of Transformer Models", "Abstract": "The most commonly used transformers for retrieval at present, BERT and T5, have been shown not to be robust to query variations such as typos or paraphrases. Although this is an important prerequisite for their practicality, this problem has hardly been investigated. More recent large language models (LLMs), including instruction-tuned LLMs, have not been analyzed yet, and only one study looks beyond typos. We close this gap by reproducing this study and extending it with a systematic analysis of more recent models, including Sentence-BERT, CharacterBERT, E5-Mistral, AnglE, and Ada v2. We further investigate if instruct-LLMs can be prompted for robustness. Our results are mixed in that the previously observed robustness issues for cross-encoders also apply to bi-encoders that use much larger LLMs, albeit to a lesser extent. While further LLM scaling may improve their embeddings, their cost-effective use for all but large deployments is limited. Training data that includes query variations allows LLMs to be fine-tuned for more robustness, but focusing on a single category of query variation may even degrade the effectiveness on others. Our code, results, and artifacts can be found at https://github.com/webis-de/EMNLP-24"}
{"Title": "Revisiting Catastrophic Forgetting in Large Language Model Tuning", "Abstract": "Catastrophic Forgetting (CF) means models forgetting previously acquired knowledge when learning new data. It compromises the effectiveness of large language models (LLMs) during fine-tuning, yet the underlying causes have not been thoroughly investigated. This paper takes the first step to reveal the direct link between the flatness of the model loss landscape and the extent of CF in the field of LLMs. Based on this, we introduce the sharpness-aware minimization to mitigate CF by flattening the loss landscape. Experiments on three widely-used fine-tuning datasets, spanning different model scales, demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in alleviating CF. Analyses show that we nicely complement the existing anti-forgetting strategies, further enhancing the resistance of LLMs to CF."}
{"Title": "M5 \u2013 A Diverse Benchmark to Assess the Performance of Large Multimodal Models Across Multilingual and Multicultural Vision-Language Tasks", "Abstract": "Since the release of ChatGPT, the field of Natural Language Processing has experienced rapid advancements, particularly in Large Language Models (LLMs) and their multimodal counterparts, Large Multimodal Models (LMMs). Despite their impressive capabilities, LLMs often exhibit significant performance disparities across different languages and cultural contexts, as demonstrated by various text-only benchmarks. However, current research lacks such benchmarks for multimodal visio-linguistic settings. This work fills this gap by introducing M5, the first comprehensive benchmark designed to evaluate LMMs on diverse vision-language tasks within a multilingual and multicultural context. M5 includes eight datasets covering five tasks and 41 languages, with a focus on underrepresented languages and culturally diverse images. Furthermore, we introduce two novel datasets, M5-VGR and M5-VLOD, including a new Visio-Linguistic Outlier Detection task, in which all evaluated open-source models fail to significantly surpass the random baseline. Through extensive evaluation and analyses, we highlight substantial task-agnostic performance disparities between high- and low-resource languages. Moreover, we show that larger models do not necessarily outperform smaller ones in a multilingual setting."}
{"Title": "Divine LLaMAs: Bias, Stereotypes, Stigmatization, and Emotion Representation of Religion in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Emotions play important epistemological and cognitive roles in our lives, revealing our values and guiding our actions. Previous work has shown that LLMs display biases in emotion attribution along gender lines. However, unlike gender, which says little about our values, religion, as a socio-cultural system, prescribes a set of beliefs and values for its followers. Religions, therefore, cultivate certain emotions. Moreover, these rules are explicitly laid out and interpreted by religious leaders. Using emotion attribution, we explore how different religions are represented in LLMs. We find that:Major religions in the US and European countries are represented with more nuance, displaying a more shaded model of their beliefs.Eastern religions like Hinduism and Buddhism are strongly stereotyped.Judaism and Islam are stigmatized {--} the models{'} refusal skyrocket. We ascribe these to cultural bias in LLMs and the scarcity of NLP literature on religion. In the rare instances where religion is discussed, it is often in the context of toxic language, perpetuating the perception of these religions as inherently toxic. This finding underscores the urgent need to address and rectify these biases. Our research emphasizes the crucial role emotions play in shaping our lives and how our values influence them."}
{"Title": "Boosting Large Language Models with Continual Learning for Aspect-based Sentiment Analysis", "Abstract": "Aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) is an important subtask of sentiment analysis, which aims to extract the aspects and predict their sentiments. Most existing studies focus on improving the performance of the target domain by fine-tuning domain-specific models (trained on source domains) based on the target domain dataset. Few works propose continual learning tasks for ABSA, which aim to learn the target domain{'}s ability while maintaining the history domains{'} abilities. In this paper, we propose a Large Language Model-based Continual Learning (LLM-CL) model for ABSA. First, we design a domain knowledge decoupling module to learn a domain-invariant adapter and separate domain-variant adapters dependently with an orthogonal constraint. Then, we introduce a domain knowledge warmup strategy to align the representation between domain-invariant and domain-variant knowledge. In the test phase, we index the corresponding domain-variant knowledge via domain positioning to not require each sample{'}s domain ID. Extensive experiments over 19 datasets indicate that our LLM-CL model obtains new state-of-the-art performance."}
{"Title": "ProTrix: Building Models for Planning and Reasoning over Tables with Sentence Context", "Abstract": "Tables play a crucial role in conveying information in various domains. We propose a Plan-then-Reason framework to answer different types of user queries over tables with sentence context. The framework first plans the reasoning paths over the context, then assigns each step to program-based or textual reasoning to reach the final answer. This framework enhances the table reasoning abilities for both in-context learning and fine-tuning methods. GPT-3.5-Turbo following Plan-then-Reason framework surpasses other prompting baselines without self-consistency while using less API calls and in-context demonstrations. We also construct an instruction tuning set TrixInstruct to evaluate the effectiveness of fine-tuning with this framework. We present ProTrix model family by finetuning models on TrixInstruct. Our experiments show that ProTrix family generalizes to diverse unseen tabular tasks with only 6k training instances. We further demonstrate that ProTrix can generate accurate and faithful explanations to answer complex free-form questions. Our work underscores the importance of the planning and reasoning abilities towards a model over tabular tasks with generalizability and interpretability. We will open-source our dataset and models."}
{"Title": "Recent Advances in Online Hate Speech Moderation: Multimodality and the Role of Large Models", "Abstract": "Moderating hate speech (HS) in the evolving online landscape is a complex challenge, compounded by the multimodal nature of digital content. This survey examines recent advancements in HS moderation, focusing on the burgeoning role of large language models (LLMs) and large multimodal models (LMMs) in detecting, explaining, debiasing, and countering HS. We begin with a comprehensive analysis of current literature, uncovering how text, images, and audio interact to spread HS. The combination of these modalities adds complexity and subtlety to HS dissemination. We also identified research gaps, particularly in underrepresented languages and cultures, and highlight the need for solutions in low-resource settings. The survey concludes with future research directions, including novel AI methodologies, ethical AI governance, and the development of context-aware systems. This overview aims to inspire further research and foster collaboration towards responsible and human-centric approaches to HS moderation in the digital age."}
{"Title": "Quantifying Generative Media Bias with a Corpus of Real-world and Generated News Articles", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly being utilised across a range of tasks and domains, with a burgeoning interest in their application within the field of journalism. This trend raises concerns due to our limited understanding of LLM behaviour in this domain, especially with respect to political bias. Existing studies predominantly focus on LLMs undertaking political questionnaires, which offers only limited insights into their biases and operational nuances. To address this gap, our study establishes a new curated dataset that contains 2,100 human-written articles and utilises their descriptions to generate 56,700 synthetic articles using nine LLMs. This enables us to analyse shifts in properties between human-authored and machine-generated articles, with this study focusing on political bias, detecting it using both supervised models and LLMs. Our findings reveal significant disparities between base and instruction-tuned LLMs, with instruction-tuned models exhibiting consistent political bias. Furthermore, we are able to study how LLMs behave as classifiers, observing their display of political bias even in this role. Overall, for the first time within the journalistic domain, this study outlines a framework and provides a structured dataset for quantifiable experiments, serving as a foundation for further research into LLM political bias and its implications."}
{"Title": "OEE-CFC: A Dataset for Open Event Extraction from Chinese Financial Commentary", "Abstract": "To meet application needs, event extraction has shifted from simple entities to unconventional entities serving as event arguments. However, current corpora with unconventional entities as event arguments are limited in event types and lack rich multi-events and shared arguments. Financial commentary not only describes the basic elements of an event but also states the background, scope, manner, condition, result, and tool used for the event, as well as the tense, intensity, and emotions of actions or state changes. Therefore, it is not suitable to develop event types that include only a few specific roles, as these cannot comprehensively capture the event{'}s semantics. Also, there are affluent complex entities serving as event arguments, multiple events, and shared event arguments. To advance the practicality of event extraction technology, this paper first develops a general open event template from the perspective of understanding the meaning of events, aiming to comprehensively reveal useful information about events. This template includes 21 event argument roles, divided into three categories: core event roles, situational event roles, and adverbial roles. Then, based on the constructed event template, Chinese financial commentaries are collected and manually annotated to create a corpus OEE-CFC supporting open event extraction. This corpus includes 17,469 events, 44,221 arguments, 3,644 complex arguments, and 5,898 shared arguments. Finally, based on the characteristics of OEE-CFC, we design four types of prompts, and two models for event argument extraction are developed, with experiments conducted on the prompts."}
{"Title": "Graph-tree Fusion Model with Bidirectional Information Propagation for Long Document Classification", "Abstract": "Long document classification presents challenges in capturing both local and global dependencies due to their extensive content and complex structure. Existing methods often struggle with token limits and fail to adequately model hierarchical relationships within documents. To address these constraints, we propose a novel model leveraging a graph-tree structure. Our approach integrates syntax trees for sentence encodings and document graphs for document encodings, which capture fine-grained syntactic relationships and broader document contexts, respectively. We use Tree Transformers to generate sentence encodings, while a graph attention network models inter- and intra-sentence dependencies. During training, we implement bidirectional information propagation from word-to-sentence-to-document and vice versa, which enriches the contextual representation. Our proposed method enables a comprehensive understanding of content at all hierarchical levels and effectively handles arbitrarily long contexts without token limit constraints. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in all types of long document classification tasks."}
{"Title": "BookWorm: A Dataset for Character Description and Analysis", "Abstract": "Characters are at the heart of every story, driving the plot and engaging readers. In this study, we explore the understanding of characters in full-length books, which contain complex narratives and numerous interacting characters. We define two tasks: character description, which generates a brief factual profile, and character analysis, which offers an in-depth interpretation, including character development, personality, and social context. We introduce the BookWorm dataset, pairing books from the Gutenberg Project with human-written descriptions and analyses. Using this dataset, we evaluate state-of-the-art long-context models in zero-shot and fine-tuning settings, utilizing both retrieval-based and hierarchical processing for book-length inputs. Our findings show that retrieval-based approaches outperform hierarchical ones in both tasks. Additionally, fine-tuned models using coreference-based retrieval produce the most factual descriptions, as measured by fact- and entailment-based metrics. We hope our dataset, experiments, and analysis will inspire further research in character-based narrative understanding."}
{"Title": "Leveraging Grammar Induction for Language Understanding and Generation", "Abstract": "Grammar induction has made significant progress in recent years. However, it is not clear how the application of induced grammar could enhance practical performance in downstream tasks. In this work, we introduce an unsupervised grammar induction method for language understanding and generation. We construct a grammar parser to induce constituency structures and dependency relations, which is simultaneously trained on downstream tasks without additional syntax annotations. The induced grammar features are subsequently incorporated into Transformer as a syntactic mask to guide self-attention. We evaluate and apply our method to multiple machine translation tasks and natural language understanding tasks. Our method demonstrates superior performance compared to the original Transformer and other models enhanced with external parsers. Experimental results indicate that our method is effective in both from-scratch and pre-trained scenarios. Additionally, our research highlights the contribution of explicitly modeling the grammatical structure of texts to neural network models."}
{"Title": "SH2: Self-Highlighted Hesitation Helps You Decode More Truthfully", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) demonstrate great performance in text generation. However, LLMs are still suffering from hallucinations. In this work, we propose an inference-time method, Self-Highlighted Hesitation (SH2), to help LLMs decode more truthfully. SH2 is based on a simple fact rooted in information theory that for an LLM, the tokens predicted with lower probabilities are prone to be more informative than others. Our analysis shows that these low-confidence tokens are more likely to be closely related to factual information, such as nouns, proper nouns, and adjectives. Therefore, we propose to {''}highlight{''} the factual information by selecting key tokens with the lowest probabilities and concatenating them to the original context, thus forcing the model to repeatedly read and hesitate on these tokens before generation. During decoding, we also adopt contrastive decoding to emphasize the difference in output probabilities brought by the hesitation. Experimental results demonstrate that our SH2, requiring no additional data or models, can effectively help LLMs elicit factual knowledge and distinguish hallucinated contexts by themselves. Significant and consistent improvements are achieved by SH2 for LLaMA-7b, LLaMA2-7b and Mistral-7b on various hallucination tasks."}
{"Title": "RoQLlama: A Lightweight Romanian Adapted Language Model", "Abstract": "The remarkable achievements obtained by open-source large language models (LLMs) in recent years have predominantly been concentrated on tasks involving the English language. In this paper, we aim to advance the performance of Llama2 models on Romanian tasks. We tackle the problem of reduced computing resources by using QLoRA for training. We release RoQLlama-7b, a quantized LLM, which shows equal or improved results compared to its full-sized counterpart when tested on seven Romanian downstream tasks in the zero-shot setup. Also, it consistently achieves higher average scores across all few-shot prompts. Additionally, we introduce a novel Romanian dataset, namely RoMedQA, which contains single-choice medical questions in Romanian."}
{"Title": "Reference-free Hallucination Detection for Large Vision-Language Models", "Abstract": "Large vision-language models (LVLMs) have made significant progress in recent years. While LVLMs exhibit excellent ability in language understanding, question answering, and conversations of visual inputs, they are prone to producing hallucinations. While several methods are proposed to evaluate the hallucinations in LVLMs, most are reference-based and depend on external tools, which complicates their practical application. To assess the viability of alternative methods, it is critical to understand whether the reference-free approaches, which do not rely on any external tools, can efficiently detect hallucinations. Therefore, we initiate an exploratory study to demonstrate the effectiveness of different reference-free solutions in detecting hallucinations in LVLMs. In particular, we conduct an extensive study on three kinds of techniques: uncertainty-based, consistency-based, and supervised uncertainty quantification methods on four representative LVLMs across two different tasks. The empirical results show that the reference-free approaches are capable of effectively detecting non-factual responses in LVLMs, with the supervised uncertainty quantification method outperforming the others, achieving the best performance across different settings."}
{"Title": "WavLLM: Towards Robust and Adaptive Speech Large Language Model", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have expanded their scope in natural language processing (NLP) to encompass multimodal functions. However, integrating listening capabilities effectively remains a significant challenge for generalization and complex auditory task execution. In this work, we introduce WavLLM, a robust and adaptive speech large language model featuring dual encoders{---}a Whisper encoder for semantics and a WavLM encoder for speaker characteristics. Within the two-stage curriculum learning framework, WavLLM first builds its foundational capabilities by optimizing on mixed elementary single tasks, followed by advanced multi-task training on more complex tasks such as combinations of the elementary tasks. To enhance the flexibility and adherence to different tasks and instructions, a prompt-aware LoRA weight adapter is introduced in the second advanced multi-task training stage. We validate the proposed model on universal speech benchmarks and also apply it to specialized speech-question-answer (SQA) dataset, and speech Chain-of-Thought (CoT) evaluation set. Experiments demonstrate that the proposed model achieves state-of-the-art performance across a range of speech tasks on the same model size, exhibiting robust generalization capabilities in executing complex tasks using CoT approach. The codes, models, audio samples, and SQA evaluation set can be accessed at \\url{https://github.com/microsoft/SpeechT5/tree/main/WavLLM}."}
{"Title": "Learning from Implicit User Feedback, Emotions and Demographic Information in Task-Oriented and Document-Grounded Dialogues", "Abstract": "Implicit user feedback, user emotions and demographic information have shown to be promising sources for improving the accuracy and user engagement of responses generated by dialogue systems. However, the influence of such information on task completion and factual consistency, which are important criteria for task-oriented and document-grounded dialogues, is not yet known. To address this, we introduce FEDI, the first English task-oriented and document-grounded dialogue dataset annotated with this information. Our experiments with Flan-T5, GPT-2 and Llama 2 show a particularly positive impact on task completion and factual consistency. Participants in our human evaluation reported that the responses generated by the feedback-trained models were more informative (Flan-T5 and GPT-2), relevant and factual consistent (Llama 2)."}
{"Title": "Improving Argument Effectiveness Across Ideologies using Instruction-tuned Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Different political ideologies (e.g., liberal and conservative Americans) hold different worldviews, which leads to opposing stances on different issues (e.g., gun control) and, thereby, fostering societal polarization. Arguments are a means of bringing the perspectives of people with different ideologies closer together, depending on how well they reach their audience. In this paper, we study how to computationally turn ineffective arguments into effective arguments for people with certain ideologies by using instruction-tuned large language models (LLMs), looking closely at style features. For development and evaluation, we collect ineffective arguments per ideology from debate.org, and we generate about 30k, which we rewrite using three LLM methods tailored to our task: zero-shot prompting, few-shot prompting, and LLM steering. Our experiments provide evidence that LLMs naturally improve argument effectiveness for liberals. Our LLM-based and human evaluation show a clear preference towards the rewritten arguments. Code and link to the data are available here: https://github.com/roxanneelbaff/emnlp2024-iesta."}
{"Title": "KV Cache Compression, But What Must We Give in Return? A Comprehensive Benchmark of Long Context Capable Approaches", "Abstract": "Long context capability is a crucial competency for large language models (LLMs) as it mitigates the human struggle to digest long-form texts. This capability enables complex task-solving scenarios such as book summarization, code assistance, and many more tasks that are traditionally manpower-intensive. However, transformer-based LLMs face significant challenges with long context input due to the growing size of the KV cache and the intrinsic complexity of attending to extended inputs; where multiple schools of efficiency-driven approaches {---} such as KV cache quantization, token dropping, prompt compression, linear-time sequence models, and hybrid architectures {---} have been proposed to produce efficient yet long context-capable models. Despite these advancements, no existing work has comprehensively benchmarked these methods in a reasonably aligned environment. In this work, we fill this gap by providing a taxonomy of current methods and evaluating 10+ state-of-the-art approaches across seven categories of long context tasks. Our work reveals numerous previously unknown phenomena and offers insights {---} as well as a friendly workbench {---} for the future development of long context-capable LLMs. The source code is available at https://github.com/henryzhongsc/longctx{\\_}bench."}
{"Title": "An Evaluation Mechanism of LLM-based Agents on Manipulating APIs", "Abstract": "LLM-based agents can greatly extend the abilities of LLMs and thus attract sharply increased studies. An ambitious vision {--} serving users by manipulating massive API-based tools {--} has been proposed and explored. However, we find a widely accepted evaluation mechanism for generic agents is still missing. This work aims to fill this gap. We decompose tool use capability into seven aspects and form a thorough evaluation schema. In addition, we design and release an instruction dataset and a toolset {--} the two sides that the agents bridge between {--} following the principle of reflecting real-world challenges. Furthermore, we evaluate multiple generic agents. Our findings can inspire future research in improving LLM-based agents and rethink the philosophy of API design."}
{"Title": "Math-LLaVA: Bootstrapping Mathematical Reasoning for Multimodal Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive reasoning capabilities, particularly in textual mathematical problem-solving. However, existing open-source image instruction fine-tuning datasets, containing limited question-answer pairs per image, do not fully exploit visual information to enhance the multimodal mathematical reasoning capabilities of Multimodal LLMs (MLLMs). To bridge this gap, we address the lack of high-quality, diverse multimodal mathematical datasets by collecting 40K high-quality images with question-answer pairs from 24 existing datasets and synthesizing 320K new pairs, creating the MathV360K dataset, which enhances both the breadth and depth of multimodal mathematical questions. We introduce Math-LLaVA, a LLaVA-1.5-based model fine-tuned with MathV360K. This novel approach significantly improves the multimodal mathematical reasoning capabilities of LLaVA-1.5, achieving a 19-point increase and comparable performance to GPT-4V on MathVista{'}s minitest split, and yielding leading performance on Math-V and MathVerse. Furthermore, Math-LLaVA demonstrates enhanced generalizability, showing substantial improvements on the MMMU benchmark. Our research highlights the importance of dataset diversity and synthesis in advancing MLLMs{'} mathematical reasoning abilities. The code and data are available at: \\url{https://github.com/HZQ950419/Math-LLaVA}."}
{"Title": "Navigating the Nuances: A Fine-grained Evaluation of Vision-Language Navigation", "Abstract": "This study presents a novel evaluation framework for the Vision-Language Navigation (VLN) task. It aims to diagnose current models for various instruction categories at a finer-grained level. The framework is structured around the context-free grammar (CFG) of the task. The CFG serves as the basis for the problem decomposition and the core premise of the instruction categories design. We propose a semi-automatic method for CFG construction with the help of Large-Language Models (LLMs). Then, we induct and generate data spanning five principal instruction categories (i.e. direction change, landmark recognition, region recognition, vertical movement, and numerical comprehension). Our analysis of different models reveals notable performance discrepancies and recurrent issues. The stagnation of numerical comprehension, heavy selective biases over directional concepts, and other interesting findings contribute to the development of future language-guided navigation systems. The project is now available at https://zehao-wang.github.io/navnuances."}
{"Title": "Re-Invoke: Tool Invocation Rewriting for Zero-Shot Tool Retrieval", "Abstract": "Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) have enabled autonomous agents with complex reasoning and task-fulfillment capabilities using a wide range of tools. However, effectively identifying the most relevant tools for a given task becomes a key bottleneck as the toolset size grows, hindering reliable tool utilization. To address this, we introduce Re-Invoke, an unsupervised tool retrieval method designed to scale effectively to large toolsets without training. Specifically, we first generate a diverse set of synthetic queries that comprehensively cover different aspects of the query space associated with each tool document during the tool indexing phase. Second, we leverage LLM{'}s query understanding capabilities to extract key tool-related context and underlying intents from user queries during the inference phase. Finally, we employ a novel multi-view similarity ranking strategy based on intents to pinpoint the most relevant tools for each query. Our evaluation demonstrates that Re-Invoke significantly outperforms state-of-the-art alternatives in both single-tool and multi-tool scenarios, all within a fully unsupervised setting. Notably, on the ToolE datasets, we achieve a 20{\\%} relative improvement in nDCG@5 for single-tool retrieval and a 39{\\%} improvement for multi-tool retrieval."}
{"Title": "Rethinking Evaluation Methods for Machine Unlearning", "Abstract": "Machine *unlearning* refers to methods for deleting information about specific training instances from a trained machine learning model. This enables models to delete user information and comply with privacy regulations. While retraining the model from scratch on the training set excluding the instances to be {``}*forgotten*{''} would result in a desired unlearned model, owing to the size of datasets and models, it is infeasible. Hence, unlearning algorithms have been developed, where the goal is to obtain an unlearned model that behaves as closely as possible to the retrained model. Consequently, evaluating an unlearning method involves - (i) randomly selecting a *forget* set (i.e., the training instances to be unlearned), (ii) obtaining an unlearned and a retrained model, and (iii) comparing the performance of the unlearned and the retrained model on the test and forget set. However, when the forget set is randomly selected, the unlearned model is almost often similar to the original (i.e., prior to unlearning) model. Hence, it is unclear if the model did really unlearn or simply copied the weights from the original model. For a more robust evaluation, we instead propose to consider training instances with significant influence on the trained model. When such influential instances are considered in the forget set, we observe that the unlearned model deviates significantly from the retrained model. Such deviations are also observed when the size of the forget set is increased. Lastly, choice of dataset for evaluation could also lead to misleading interpretation of results."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Moral Beliefs across LLMs through a Pluralistic Framework", "Abstract": "Proper moral beliefs are fundamental for language models, yet assessing these beliefs poses a significant challenge. This study introduces a novel three-module framework to evaluate the moral beliefs of four prominent large language models. Initially, we constructed a dataset containing 472 moral choice scenarios in Chinese, derived from moral words. The decision-making process of the models in these scenarios reveals their moral principle preferences. By ranking these moral choices, we discern the varying moral beliefs held by different language models. Additionally, through moral debates, we investigate the firmness of these models to their moral choices. Our findings indicate that English language models, namely ChatGPT and Gemini, closely mirror moral decisions of the sample of Chinese university students, demonstrating strong adherence to their choices and a preference for individualistic moral beliefs. In contrast, Chinese models such as Ernie and ChatGLM lean towards collectivist moral beliefs, exhibiting ambiguity in their moral choices and debates. This study also uncovers gender bias embedded within the moral beliefs of all examined language models. Our methodology offers an innovative means to assess moral beliefs in both artificial and human intelligence, facilitating a comparison of moral values across different cultures."}
{"Title": "Knowledge Editing in Language Models via Adapted Direct Preference Optimization", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) can become outdated over time as they may lack updated world knowledge, leading to factual knowledge errors and gaps. Knowledge Editing (KE) aims to overcome this challenge using weight updates that do not require expensive retraining. We propose treating KE as an LLM alignment problem. Toward this goal, we introduce Knowledge Direct Preference Optimization (KDPO), a variation of the Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) that is more effective for knowledge modifications. Our method is based on an online approach that continually updates the knowledge stored in the model. We use the current knowledge as a negative sample and the new knowledge we want to introduce as a positive sample in a process called DPO. We also use teacher-forcing for negative sample generation and optimize using the positive sample, which helps maintain localized changes. We tested our KE method on various datasets and models, comparing it to several cutting-edge methods, with 100 and 500 sequential edits. Additionally, we conducted an ablation study comparing our method to the standard DPO approach. Our experimental results show that our modified DPO method allows for more refined KE, achieving similar or better performance compared to previous methods."}
{"Title": "Disentangling Questions from Query Generation for Task-Adaptive Retrieval", "Abstract": "This paper studies the problem of information retrieval, to adapt to unseen tasks. Existing work generates synthetic queries from domain-specific documents to jointly train the retriever. However, the conventional query generator assumes the query as a question, thus failing to accommodate general search intents. A more lenient approach incorporates task-adaptive elements, such as few-shot learning with an 137B LLM. In this paper, we challenge a trend equating query and question, and instead conceptualize query generation task as a {``}compilation{''} of high-level intent into task-adaptive query. Specifically, we propose EGG, a query generator that better adapts to wide search intents expressed in the BeIR benchmark. Our method outperforms baselines and existing models on four tasks with underexplored intents, while utilizing a query generator 47 times smaller than the previous state-of-the-art. Our findings reveal that instructing the LM with explicit search intent is a key aspect of modeling an effective query generator."}
{"Title": "Reap the Wild Wind: Detecting Media Storms in Large-Scale News Corpora", "Abstract": "Media storms, dramatic outbursts of attention to a story, are central components of media dynamics and the attention landscape. Despite their importance, there has been little systematic and empirical research on this concept due to issues of measurement and operationalization. We introduce an iterative human-in-the-loop method to identify media storms in a large-scale corpus of news articles. The text is first transformed into signals of dispersion based on several textual characteristics. In each iteration, we apply unsupervised anomaly detection to these signals; each anomaly is then validated by an expert to confirm the presence of a storm, and those results are then used to tune the anomaly detection in the next iteration. We make available the resulting media storm dataset. Both the method and dataset provide a basis for comprehensive empirical study of media storms."}
{"Title": "A Survey on Natural Language Counterfactual Generation", "Abstract": "Natural language counterfactual generation aims to minimally modify a given text such that the modified text will be classified into a different class. The generated counterfactuals provide insight into the reasoning behind a model{'}s predictions by highlighting which words significantly influence the outcomes. Additionally, they can be used to detect model fairness issues and augment the training data to enhance the model{'}s robustness. A substantial amount of research has been conducted to generate counterfactuals for various NLP tasks, employing different models and methodologies. With the rapid growth of studies in this field, a systematic review is crucial to guide future researchers and developers. To bridge this gap, this survey provides a comprehensive overview of textual counterfactual generation methods, particularly those based on Large Language Models. We propose a new taxonomy that systematically categorizes the generation methods into four groups and summarizes the metrics for evaluating the generation quality. Finally, we discuss ongoing research challenges and outline promising directions for future work."}
{"Title": "Geneverse: A Collection of Open-source Multimodal Large Language Models for Genomic and Proteomic Research", "Abstract": "The applications of large language models (LLMs) are promising for biomedical and healthcare research. Despite the availability of open-source LLMs trained using a wide range of biomedical data, current research on the applications of LLMs to genomics and proteomics is still limited. To fill this gap, we propose a collection of finetuned LLMs and multimodal LLMs (MLLMs), known as Geneverse, for three novel tasks in genomic and proteomic research. The models in Geneverse are trained and evaluated based on domain-specific datasets, and we use advanced parameter-efficient finetuning techniques to achieve the model adaptation for tasks including the generation of descriptions for gene functions, protein function inference from its structure, and marker gene selection from spatial transcriptomic data. We demonstrate that adapted LLMs and MLLMs perform well for these tasks and may outperform closed-source large-scale models based on our evaluations focusing on both truthfulness and structural correctness. All of the training strategies and base models we used are freely accessible. Our codes can be found at \\url{https://github.com/HelloWorldLTY/Geneverse}."}
{"Title": "QRMeM: Unleash the Length Limitation through Question then Reflection Memory Mechanism", "Abstract": "While LLMs have made notable advancements in natural language processing, they continue to struggle with processing extensive text. Memory mechanisms offer a flexible solution for managing long contexts, utilizing techniques such as compression, summarization, and structuring to facilitate nuanced and efficient handling of large volumes of text. However, existing techniques face challenges with static knowledge integration, leading to insufficient adaptation to task-specific needs and missing multi-segmentation relationships, which hinders the dynamic reorganization and logical combination of relevant segments during the response process. To address these issues, we introduce a novel strategy, Question then Reflection Memory Mechanism (QRMeM), which incorporates a dual-structured memory pool. This pool synergizes static textual content with structured graph guidance, fostering a reflective trial-and-error approach for navigating and identifying relevant segments. Our evaluation across multiple-choice questions (MCQ) and multi-document question answering (Multi-doc QA) benchmarks showcases QRMeM{'}s enhanced performance compared to existing approaches."}
{"Title": "LONG^2RAG: Evaluating Long-Context & Long-Form Retrieval-Augmented Generation with Key Point Recall", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "IndoCL: Benchmarking Indonesian Language Development Assessment", "Abstract": "Recently, the field of language acquisition (LA) has significantly benefited from natural language processing technologies. A crucial task in LA involves tracking the evolution of language learners{'} competence, namely language development assessment (LDA). However, the majority of LDA research focuses on high-resource languages, with limited attention directed toward low-resource languages. Moreover, existing methodologies primarily depend on linguistic rules and language characteristics, with a limited exploration of exploiting pre-trained language models (PLMs) for LDA. In this paper, we construct the IndoCL corpus (Indonesian Corpus of L2 Learners), which comprises compositions written by undergraduate students majoring in Indonesian language. Moreover, we propose a model for LDA tasks, which automatically extracts language-independent features, relieving laborious computation and reliance on specific language. The proposed model uses sequential information attention and similarity representation learning to capture the differences and common information from the first-written and second-written essays, respectively. It has demonstrated remarkable performance on both our self-constructed corpus and publicly available corpora. Our work could serve as a novel benchmark for Indonesian LDA tasks. We also explore the feasibility of using existing large-scale language models (LLMs) for LDA tasks. The results show significant potential for improving LLM performance in LDA tasks."}
{"Title": "Context-Driven Index Trimming: A Data Quality Perspective to Enhancing Precision of RALMs", "Abstract": "Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models(RALMs) have made significant strides in enhancing the accuracy of generated responses. However, existing research often overlooks the data quality issues within retrieval results, often caused by inaccurate existing vector-distance-based retrieval methods. We propose to boost the precision of RALMs{'} answers from a data quality perspective through the Context-Driven Index Trimming (CDIT) framework, where Context Matching Dependencies (CMDs) are employed as logical data quality rules to capture and regulate the consistency between retrieved contexts. Based on the semantic comprehension capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs), CDIT can effectively identify and discard retrieval results that are inconsistent with the query context and further modify indexes in the database, thereby improving answer quality. Experiments demonstrate average improvement of 3.75{\\%} in accuracy on challenging open-domain question-answering tasks. Also, the flexibility of CDIT is verified through its compatibility with various language models and indexing methods, which offers a promising approach to bolster RALMs{'} data quality and retrieval precision jointly."}
{"Title": "Counter Turing Test (CT^2): Investigating AI-Generated Text Detection for Hindi - Ranking LLMs based on Hindi AI Detectability Index (ADI_hi)", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Generating Media Background Checks for Automated Source Critical Reasoning", "Abstract": "Not everything on the internet is true. This unfortunate fact requires both humans and models to perform complex reasoning about credibility when working with retrieved information. In NLP, this problem has seen little attention. Indeed, retrieval-augmented models are not typically expected to distrust retrieved documents. Human experts overcome the challenge by gathering signals about the context, reliability, and tendency of source documents - that is, they perform *source criticism*. We propose a novel NLP task focused on finding and summarising such signals. We introduce a new dataset of 6,709 {``}media background checks{''} derived from Media Bias / Fact Check, a volunteer-run website documenting media bias. We test open-source and closed-source LLM baselines with and without retrieval on this dataset, finding that retrieval greatly improves performance. We furthermore carry out human evaluation, demonstrating that 1) media background checks are helpful for humans, and 2) media background checks are helpful for retrieval-augmented models."}
{"Title": "In Defense of Structural Sparse Adapters for Concurrent LLM Serving", "Abstract": "Adapting large language models (LLMs) to specific tasks remains challenging due to the extensive retraining required, prompting the need for efficient adapter techniques. Despite this, the concurrent serving of multiple adapters, each with unique matrix shapes, poses significant system-level challenges. To address these issues, we identify an opportunity in structurally sparse adapters, which, unlike low-rank adapters, maintain consistent matrix shapes while varying in sparsity patterns. Leveraging this characteristic, we introduce SpartanServe, a system designed for efficient concurrent serving of LLMs using multiple structurally sparse adapters. SpartanServe employs a unified matrix multiplication operation and a novel memory management technique to enable effective batching. Furthermore, the incorporation of Triton kernels enhances the acceleration of matrix multiplication in the serving process. Experimental results demonstrate that SpartanServe achieves 2.12{\\mbox{$\\times$}} speedup over S-LoRA when serving 96 adapters using a single NVIDIA A100 GPU (40GB), showcasing its efficacy in concurrent LLM serving."}
{"Title": "CONSTRUCTURE: Benchmarking CONcept STRUCTUre REasoning for Multimodal Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have shown promising results in various tasks, but their ability to perceive the visual world with deep, hierarchical understanding similar to humans remains uncertain. To address this gap, we introduce CONSTRUCTURE, a novel concept-level benchmark to assess MLLMs{'} hierarchical concept understanding and reasoning abilities. Our goal is to evaluate MLLMs across four key aspects: 1) Understanding atomic concepts at different levels of abstraction; 2) Performing upward abstraction reasoning across concepts; 3) Achieving downward concretization reasoning across concepts; and 4) Conducting multi-hop reasoning between sibling or common ancestor concepts. Our findings indicate that even state-of-the-art multimodal models struggle with concept structure reasoning (e.g., GPT-4o averages a score of 62.1{\\%}). We summarize key findings of MLLMs in concept structure reasoning evaluation. Morever, we provide key insights from experiments using CoT prompting and fine-tuning to enhance their abilities."}
{"Title": "Stanceformer: Target-Aware Transformer for Stance Detection", "Abstract": "The task of Stance Detection involves discerning the stance expressed in a text towards a specific subject or target. Prior works have relied on existing transformer models that lack the capability to prioritize targets effectively. Consequently, these models yield similar performance regardless of whether we utilize or disregard target information, undermining the task{'}s significance. To address this challenge, we introduce Stanceformer, a target-aware transformer model that incorporates enhanced attention towards the targets during both training and inference. Specifically, we design a \\textit{Target Awareness} matrix that increases the self-attention scores assigned to the targets. We demonstrate the efficacy of the Stanceformer with various BERT-based models, including state-of-the-art models and Large Language Models (LLMs), and evaluate its performance across three stance detection datasets, alongside a zero-shot dataset. Our approach Stanceformer not only provides superior performance but also generalizes even to other domains, such as Aspect-based Sentiment Analysis. We make the code publicly available."}
{"Title": "Learning Autonomous Driving Tasks via Human Feedbacks with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Traditional autonomous driving systems have mainly focused on making driving decisions without human interaction, overlooking human-like decision-making and human preference required in complex traffic scenarios. To bridge this gap, we introduce a novel framework leveraging Large Language Models (LLMs) for learning human-centered driving decisions from diverse simulation scenarios and environments that incorporate human feedback. Our contributions include a GPT-4-based programming planner that integrates seamlessly with the existing CARLA simulator to understand traffic scenes and react to human instructions. Specifically, we build a human-guided learning pipeline that incorporates human driver feedback directly into the learning process and stores optimal driving programming policy using Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG). Impressively, our programming planner, with only 50 saved code snippets, can match the performance of baseline extensively trained reinforcement learning (RL) models. Our paper highlights the potential of an LLM-powered shared-autonomy system, pushing the frontier of autonomous driving system development to be more interactive and intuitive."}
{"Title": "CultureBank: An Online Community-Driven Knowledge Base Towards Culturally Aware Language Technologies", "Abstract": "To enhance language models{'} cultural awareness, we design a generalizable pipeline to construct cultural knowledge bases from different online communities on a massive scale. With the pipeline, we construct CultureBank, a knowledge base built upon users{'} self-narratives with 12K cultural descriptors sourced from TikTok and 11K from Reddit. Unlike previous cultural knowledge resources, CultureBank contains diverse views on cultural descriptors to allow flexible interpretation of cultural knowledge, and contextualized cultural scenarios to help grounded evaluation. With CultureBank, we evaluate different LLMs{'} cultural awareness, and identify areas for improvement. We also fine-tune a language model on CultureBank: experiments show that it achieves better performances on two downstream cultural tasks in a zero-shot setting. Finally, we offer recommendations for future culturally aware language technologies. We release the CultureBank dataset, code and models at https://github.com/SALT-NLP/CultureBank. Our project page is at culturebank.github.io"}
{"Title": "TOOLVERIFIER: Generalization to New Tools via Self-Verification", "Abstract": "Teaching language models to use tools is an important milestone towards building general assistants, but remains an open problem. While there has been significant progress on learning to use specific tools via fine-tuning, language models still struggle with learning how to robustly use new tools from only a few demonstrations. In this work we introduce a self-verification method which distinguishes between close candidates by self-asking contrastive questions during (1) tool selection; and parameter generation. We construct synthetic, high-quality, self-generated data for this goal using Llama-2 70B, which we intend to release publicly. Extensive experiments on 4 tasks from the ToolBench benchmark, consisting of 17 unseen tools, demonstrate an average improvement of 22{\\%} over few-shot baselines, even in scenarios where the distinctions between candidate tools are finely nuanced."}
{"Title": "FaithScore: Fine-grained Evaluations of Hallucinations in Large Vision-Language Models", "Abstract": "We introduce FaithScore (Faithfulness to Atomic Image Facts Score), a reference-free and fine-grained evaluation metric that measures the faithfulness of the generated free-form answers from large vision-language models (LVLMs). The FaithScore evaluation first identifies sub-sentences containing descriptive statements that need to be verified, then extracts a comprehensive list of atomic facts from these sub-sentences, and finally conducts consistency verification between fine-grained atomic facts and the input image. Meta-evaluation demonstrates that our metric highly correlates with human judgments of faithfulness. We collect two benchmark datasets (i.e. LLaVA-1k and MSCOCO-Cap) for evaluating LVLMs instruction-following hallucinations. We measure hallucinations in state-of-the-art LVLMs with FaithScore on the datasets. Results reveal that current systems are prone to generate hallucinated content unfaithful to the image, which leaves room for future improvements. We hope our metric FaithScore can help evaluate future LVLMs in terms of faithfulness and provide insightful advice for enhancing LVLMs{'} faithfulness."}
{"Title": "Learning to Ask Informative Questions: Enhancing LLMs with Preference Optimization and Expected Information Gain", "Abstract": "Questions are essential tools for acquiring the necessary information to complete information-seeking tasks. However, large language models (LLMs), especially open-source models, often perform poorly in generating informative questions, as measured by expected information gain (EIG). In this paper, we propose a method to enhance the informativeness of LLM-generated questions in 20-question game dialogues. We sample multiple questions from the same model (LLaMA 2-Chat 7B) for each game and create pairs of low-EIG and high-EIG questions to apply a Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) algorithm. Our results show that this method produces more effective questions (in terms of EIG), even in domains different from those used to train the DPO model."}
{"Title": "Adversarial Math Word Problem Generation", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have significantly transformed the educational landscape. As current plagiarism detection tools struggle to keep pace with LLMs{'} rapid advancements, the educational community faces the challenge of assessing students{'} true problem-solving abilities in the presence of LLMs. In this work, we explore a new paradigm for ensuring fair evaluation{---}generating adversarial examples which preserve the structure and difficulty of the original questions aimed for assessment, but are unsolvable by LLMs. Focusing on the domain of math word problems, we leverage abstract syntax trees to structurally generate adversarial examples that cause LLMs to produce incorrect answers by simply editing the numeric values in the problems. We conduct experiments on various open- and closed-source LLMs, quantitatively and qualitatively demonstrating that our method significantly degrades their math problem-solving ability. We identify shared vulnerabilities among LLMs and propose a cost-effective approach to attack high-cost models. Additionally, we conduct automatic analysis to investigate the cause of failure, providing further insights into the limitations of LLMs."}
{"Title": "Defending Large Language Models Against Jailbreak Attacks via Layer-specific Editing", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly being adopted in a wide range of real-world applications. Despite their impressive performance, recent studies have shown that LLMs are vulnerable to deliberately crafted adversarial prompts even when aligned via Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback or supervised fine-tuning. While existing defense methods focus on either detecting harmful prompts or reducing the likelihood of harmful responses through various means, defending LLMs against jailbreak attacks based on the inner mechanisms of LLMs remains largely unexplored. In this work, we investigate how LLMs respond to harmful prompts and propose a novel defense method termed \\textbf{L}ayer-specific \\textbf{Ed}iting (LED) to enhance the resilience of LLMs against jailbreak attacks. Through LED, we reveal that several critical \\textit{safety layers} exist among the early layers of LLMs. We then show that realigning these safety layers (and some selected additional layers) with the decoded safe response from identified \\textit{toxic layers} can significantly improve the alignment of LLMs against jailbreak attacks. Extensive experiments across various LLMs (e.g., Llama2, Mistral) show the effectiveness of LED, which effectively defends against jailbreak attacks while maintaining performance on benign prompts. Our code is available at \\url{https://github.com/ledllm/ledllm}."}
{"Title": "Promoting Constructive Deliberation: Reframing for Receptiveness", "Abstract": "To promote constructive discussion of controversial topics online, we propose automatic reframing of disagreeing responses to signal receptiveness to a preceding comment. Drawing on research from psychology, communications, and linguistics, we identify six strategies for reframing. We automatically reframe replies to comments according to each strategy, using a Reddit dataset. Through human-centered experiments, we find that the replies generated with our framework are perceived to be significantly more receptive than the original replies and a generic receptiveness baseline. We illustrate how transforming receptiveness, a particular social science construct, into a computational framework, can make LLM generations more aligned with human perceptions. We analyze and discuss the implications of our results, and highlight how a tool based on our framework might be used for more teachable and creative content moderation."}
{"Title": "A Simple but Effective Approach to Improve Structured Language Model Output for Information Extraction", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive abilities in generating unstructured natural language according to instructions. However, their performance can be inconsistent when tasked with producing text that adheres to specific structured formats, which is crucial in applications like named entity recognition (NER) or relation extraction (RE). To address this issue, this paper introduces an efficient method, G{\\&}O, to enhance their structured text generation capabilities. It breaks the generation into a two-step pipeline: initially, LLMs generate answers in natural language as intermediate responses. Subsequently, LLMs are asked to organize the output into the desired structure, using the intermediate responses as context. G{\\&}O effectively separates the generation of content from the structuring process, reducing the pressure of completing two orthogonal tasks simultaneously. Tested on zero-shot NER and RE, the results indicate a significant improvement in LLM performance with minimal additional efforts. This straightforward and adaptable prompting technique can also be combined with other strategies, like self-consistency, to further elevate LLM capabilities in various structured text generation tasks."}
{"Title": "Rater Cohesion and Quality from a Vicarious Perspective", "Abstract": "Human feedback is essential for building human-centered AI systems across domains where disagreement is prevalent, such as AI safety, content moderation, or sentiment analysis. Many disagreements, particularly in politically charged settings, arise because raters have opposing values or beliefs. Vicarious annotation is a method for breaking down disagreement by asking raters how they think others would annotate the data. In this paper, we explore the use of vicarious annotation with analytical methods for moderating rater disagreement. We employ rater cohesion metrics to study the potential influence of political affiliations and demographic backgrounds on raters{'} perceptions of offense. Additionally, we utilize CrowdTruth{'}s rater quality metrics, which consider the demographics of the raters, to score the raters and their annotations. We study how the rater quality metrics influence the in-group and cross-group rater cohesion across the personal and vicarious levels."}
{"Title": "Shall We Team Up: Exploring Spontaneous Cooperation of Competing LLM Agents", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have increasingly been utilized in social simulations, where they are often guided by carefully crafted instructions to stably exhibit human-like behaviors during simulations. Nevertheless, we doubt the necessity of shaping agents{'} behaviors for accurate social simulations. Instead, this paper emphasizes the importance of spontaneous phenomena, wherein agents deeply engage in contexts and make adaptive decisions without explicit directions. We explored spontaneous cooperation across three competitive scenarios and successfully simulated the gradual emergence of cooperation, findings that align closely with human behavioral data. This approach not only aids the computational social science community in bridging the gap between simulations and real-world dynamics but also offers the AI community a novel method to assess LLMs{'} capability of deliberate reasoning.Our source code is available at https://github.com/wuzengqing001225/SABM{\\_}ShallWeTeamUp"}
{"Title": "Normalized Narrow Jump To Conclusions: Normalized Narrow Shortcuts for Parameter Efficient Early Exit Transformer Prediction", "Abstract": "With the size and cost of large transformer-based language models growing, recently, there has been interest in shortcut casting of early transformer hidden-representations to final-representations for cheaper model inference. In particular, shortcutting pre-trained transformers with linear transformations over early layers has been shown to improve precision in early inference. However, for large language models, even this becomes computationally expensive. In this work, we propose Narrow Jump to Conclusions (NJTC) and Normalized Narrow Jump to Conclusions (N-NJTC) - parameter efficient alternatives to standard linear shortcutting that reduces shortcut parameter count by over 97{\\%}. We show that N-NJTC reliably outperforms Identity shortcuts at early stages and offers stable precision from all transformer block levels for GPT-2-XL, Phi3-Mini and Llama2-7B transformer models, demonstrating the viability of more parameter efficient short-cutting approaches."}
{"Title": "From Test-Taking to Test-Making: Examining LLM Authoring of Commonsense Assessment Items", "Abstract": "LLMs can now perform a variety of complex writing tasks. They also excel in answering questions pertaining to natural language inference and commonsense reasoning. Composing these questions is itself a skilled writing task, so in this paper we consider LLMs as authors of commonsense assessment items. We prompt LLMs to generate items in the style of a prominent benchmark for commonsense reasoning, the Choice of Plausible Alternatives (COPA). We examine the outcome according to analyses facilitated by the LLMs and human annotation. We find that LLMs that succeed in answering the original COPA benchmark are also more successful in authoring their own items."}
{"Title": "\u201dI Never Said That\u201d: A dataset, taxonomy and baselines on response clarity classification", "Abstract": "Equivocation and ambiguity in public speech are well-studied discourse phenomena, especially in political science and analysis of political interviews. Inspired by the well-grounded theory on equivocation, we aim to resolve the closely related problem of response clarity in questions extracted from political interviews, leveraging the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) and human expertise. To this end, we introduce a novel taxonomy that frames the task of detecting and classifying response clarity and a corresponding clarity classification dataset which consists of question-answer (QA) pairs drawn from political interviews and annotated accordingly. Our proposed two-level taxonomy addresses the clarity of a response in terms of the information provided for a given question (high-level) and also provides a fine-grained taxonomy of evasion techniques that relate to unclear, ambiguous responses (lower-level). We combine ChatGPT and human annotators to collect, validate and annotate discrete QA pairs from political interviews, to be used for our newly introduced response clarity task. We provide a detailed analysis and conduct several experiments with different model architectures, sizes and adaptation methods to gain insights and establish new baselines over the proposed dataset and task."}
{"Title": "Immunization against harmful fine-tuning attacks", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) are often trained with safety guards intended to prevent harmful text generation. However, such safety training can be removed by fine-tuning the LLM on harmful datasets. While this emerging threat (harmful fine-tuning attacks) has been characterized by previous work, there is little understanding of how we should proceed in constructing and validating defenses against these attacks especially in the case where defenders would not have control of the fine-tuning process. We introduce a formal framework based on the training budget of an attacker which we call {``}Immunization{''} conditions. Using a formal characterisation of the harmful fine-tuning problem, we provide a thorough description of what a successful defense must comprise of and establish a set of guidelines on how rigorous defense research that gives us confidence should proceed."}
{"Title": "UniMEEC: Towards Unified Multimodal Emotion Recognition and Emotion Cause", "Abstract": "Multimodal emotion recognition in conversation (MERC) and multimodal emotion-cause pair extraction (MECPE) have recently garnered significant attention. Emotions are the expression of affect or feelings; responses to specific events, or situations {--} known as emotion causes. Both collectively explain the causality between human emotion and intents. However, existing works treat emotion recognition and emotion cause extraction as two individual problems, ignoring their natural causality. In this paper, we propose a Unified Multimodal Emotion recognition and Emotion-Cause analysis framework (UniMEEC) to explore the causality between emotion and emotion cause. Concretely, UniMEEC reformulates the MERC and MECPE tasks as mask prediction problems and unifies them with a causal prompt template. To differentiate the modal effects, UniMEEC proposes a multimodal causal prompt to probe the pre-trained knowledge specified to modality and implements cross-task and cross-modality interactions under task-oriented settings. Experiment results on four public benchmark datasets verify the model performance on MERC and MECPE tasks and achieve consistent improvements compared with the previous state-of-the-art methods."}
{"Title": "CodeFort: Robust Training for Code Generation Models", "Abstract": "Code generation models are not robust to small perturbations, which often lead to incorrect generations and significantly degrade the performance of these models. Although improving the robustness of code generation models is crucial to enhancing user experience in real-world applications, existing research efforts do not address this issue. To fill this gap, we propose CodeFort, a framework to improve the robustness of code generation models, generalizing a large variety of code perturbations to enrich the training data and enabling various robust training strategies, mixing data augmentation, batch augmentation, adversarial logits pairing, and contrastive learning, all carefully designed to support high-throughput training. Extensive evaluations show that we increase the average robust pass rates of baseline CodeGen models from 14.79 to 21.74. We notably decrease the robustness drop rate from 95.02{\\%} to 54.95{\\%} against code-syntax perturbations."}
{"Title": "MP-RNA: Unleashing Multi-species RNA Foundation Model via Calibrated Secondary Structure Prediction", "Abstract": "RNA foundation models (FMs) have been extensively used to interpret genomic sequences and address a wide range of in-silico genomic tasks. However, current RNA FMs often overlook the incorporation of secondary structures in the pretraining of FMs, which impedes the effectiveness in various genomic tasks. To address this problem, we leverage filtered high-fidelity structure annotations for structure pretraining to enhance the modeling ability of FMs in single nucleotide resolution tasks. Experimental evaluations across four comprehensive genomic benchmarks demonstrate that our RNA FM consistently outperforms existing RNA FMs, achieving a 40{\\%} improvement in RNA secondary structure prediction and obtaining top-tier results on DNA genomic benchmarks even though it has not been pretrained on any DNA genome. We release the code and models to encourage further research to bridge the gap between in-silico predictions and biological reality."}
{"Title": "\u201cAny Other Thoughts, Hedgehog?\u201d Linking Deliberation Chains in Collaborative Dialogues", "Abstract": "Question-asking in collaborative dialogue has long been established as key to knowledge construction, both in internal and collaborative problem solving. In this work, we examine probing questions in collaborative dialogues: questions that explicitly elicit responses from the speaker{'}s interlocutors. Specifically, we focus on modeling the causal relations that lead directly from utterances earlier in the dialogue to the emergence of the probing question. We model these relations using a novel graph-based framework of *deliberation chains*, and realize the problem of constructing such chains as a coreference-style clustering problem. Our framework jointly models probing and causal utterances and the links between them, and we evaluate on two challenging collaborative task datasets: the Weights Task and DeliData. Our results demonstrate the effectiveness of our theoretically-grounded approach compared to both baselines and stronger coreference approaches, and establish a standard of performance in this novel task."}
{"Title": "Evaluation of Question Answer Generation for Portuguese: Insights and Datasets", "Abstract": "Automatic question generation is an increasingly important task that can be applied in different settings, including educational purposes, data augmentation for question-answering (QA), and conversational systems. More specifically, we focus on question answer generation (QAG), which produces question-answer pairs given an input context. We adapt and apply QAG approaches to generate question-answer pairs for different domains and assess their capacity to generate accurate, diverse, and abundant question-answer pairs. Our analyses combine both qualitative and quantitative evaluations that allow insights into the quality and types of errors made by QAG methods. We also look into strategies for error filtering and their effects. Our work concentrates on Portuguese, a widely spoken language that is underrepresented in natural language processing research. To address the pressing need for resources, we generate and make available human-curated extractive QA datasets in three diverse domains."}
{"Title": "Evolutionary Contrastive Distillation for Language Model Alignment", "Abstract": "The ability of large language models (LLMs) to execute complex instructions is essential for their real-world applications. However, several recent studies indicate that LLMs struggle with challenging instructions. In this paper, we propose Evolutionary Contrastive Distillation (ECD), a novel method for generating high-quality synthetic preference data designed to enhance the complex instruction-following capability of language models. ECD generates data that specifically illustrates the difference between a response that successfully follows a set of complex instructions and a response that is high-quality, but nevertheless makes some subtle mistakes. This is done by prompting LLMs to progressively evolve simple instructions to more complex instructions. When the complexity of an instruction is increased, the original successful response to the original instruction becomes a {``}hard negative{''} response for the new instruction, mostly meeting requirements of the new instruction, but barely missing one or two. By pairing a good response with such a hard negative response, and employing contrastive learning algorithms such as DPO, we improve language models{'} ability to follow complex instructions. Empirically, we observe that our method yields a 7B model that exceeds the complex instruction-following performance of current SOTA 7B models and is competitive even with open-source 70B models."}
{"Title": "A Fairness-Driven Method for Learning Human-Compatible Negotiation Strategies", "Abstract": "Despite recent advancements in AI and NLP, negotiation remains a difficult domain for AI agents. Traditional game theoretic approaches that have worked well for two-player zero-sum games struggle in the context of negotiation due to their inability to learn human-compatible strategies. On the other hand, approaches that only use human data tend to be domain-specific and lack the theoretical guarantees provided by strategies grounded in game theory. Motivated by the notion of fairness as a criterion for optimality in general sum games, we propose a negotiation framework called FDHC which incorporates fairness into both the reward design and search to learn human-compatible negotiation strategies. Our method includes a novel, RL+search technique called LGM-Zero which leverages a pre-trained language model to retrieve human-compatible offers from large action spaces. Our results show that our method is able to achieve more egalitarian negotiation outcomes and improve negotiation quality."}
{"Title": "Using RL to Identify Divisive Perspectives Improves LLMs Abilities to Identify Communities on Social Media", "Abstract": "The large scale usage of social media, combined with its significant impact, has made it increasingly important to understand it. In particular, identifying user communities, can be helpful for many downstream tasks. However, particularly when models are trained on past data and tested on future, doing this is difficult.In this paper, we hypothesize to take advantage of Large Language Models (LLMs), to better identify user communities. Due to the fact that many LLMs, such as ChatGPT, are fixed and must be treated as black-boxes, we propose an approach to better prompt them, by training a smaller LLM to do this. We devise strategies to train this smaller model, showing how it can improve the larger LLMs ability to detect communities. Experimental results show improvements on Reddit and Twitter data, and the tasks of community detection, bot detection, and news media profiling."}
{"Title": "Are LLMs Effective Negotiators? Systematic Evaluation of the Multifaceted Capabilities of LLMs in Negotiation Dialogues", "Abstract": "A successful negotiation requires a range of capabilities, including comprehension of the conversation context, Theory-of-Mind (ToM) skills to infer the partner{'}s motives, strategic reasoning, and effective communication, making it challenging for automated systems. Despite the remarkable performance of LLMs in various NLP tasks, there is no systematic evaluation of their capabilities in negotiation. Such an evaluation is critical for advancing AI negotiation agents and negotiation research, ranging from designing dialogue systems to providing pedagogical feedback and scaling up data collection practices. This work aims to systematically analyze the multifaceted capabilities of LLMs across diverse dialogue scenarios throughout the stages of a typical negotiation interaction. Our analysis highlights GPT-4{'}s superior performance in many tasks while identifying specific challenges, such as making subjective assessments and generating contextually appropriate, strategically advantageous responses."}
{"Title": "When Raw Data Prevails: Are Large Language Model Embeddings Effective in Numerical Data Representation for Medical Machine Learning Applications?", "Abstract": "The introduction of Large Language Models (LLMs) has advanced data representation and analysis, bringing significant progress in their use for medical questions and answering. Despite these advancements, integrating tabular data, especially numerical data pivotal in clinical contexts, into LLM paradigms has not been thoroughly explored. In this study, we examine the effectiveness of vector representations from last hidden states of LLMs for medical diagnostics and prognostics using electronic health record (EHR) data. We compare the performance of these embeddings with that of raw numerical EHR data when used as feature inputs to traditional machine learning (ML) algorithms that excel at tabular data learning, such as eXtreme Gradient Boosting. We focus on instruction-tuned LLMs in a zero-shot setting to represent abnormal physiological data and evaluating their utilities as feature extractors to enhance ML classifiers for predicting diagnoses, length of stay, and mortality. Furthermore, we examine prompt engineering techniques on zero-shot and few-shot LLM embeddings to measure their impact comprehensively. Although findings suggest the raw data features still prevail in medical ML tasks, zero-shot LLM embeddings demonstrate competitive results, suggesting a promising avenue for future research in medical applications."}
{"Title": "Losing Visual Needles in Image Haystacks: Vision Language Models are Easily Distracted in Short and Long Contexts", "Abstract": "We present LoCoVQA, a dynamic benchmark generator for evaluating long-context reasoning in vision language models (VLMs). LoCoVQA augments test examples for mathematical reasoning, VQA, and character recognition tasks with increasingly long visual contexts composed of both in-distribution and out-of-distribution distractor images.Across these tasks, a diverse set of VLMs rapidly lose performance as the visual context length grows, often exhibiting a striking logarithmic decay trend. This test assesses how well VLMs can ignore irrelevant information when answering queries{---}a task that is quite easy for language models (LMs) in the text domain{---}demonstrating that current state-of-the-art VLMs lack this essential capability for many long-context applications."}
{"Title": "Calibrating LLMs with Preference Optimization on Thought Trees for Generating Rationale in Science Question Scoring", "Abstract": "Generating rationales that justify scoring decisions has been a promising way to facilitate explainability in automated scoring systems. However, existing methods do not match the accuracy of classifier-based methods. Plus, the generated rationales often contain hallucinated information. To address these issues, we propose a novel framework capable of generating more faithful rationales and, more importantly, matching performance with classifier-based black-box scoring systems. We first mimic the human assessment process by querying Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate a thought tree. We then summarise intermediate assessment decisions from each thought tree path for creating synthetic rationale data and rationale preference data. Finally, we utilise the generated synthetic data to calibrate LLMs through a two-step training process: supervised fine-tuning and preference optimization. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that our framework achieves a 38{\\%} assessment performance improvement in the QWK score compared to prior work while producing higher-quality rationales, as recognised by human evaluators and LLMs. Our work sheds light on the effectiveness of performing preference optimization using synthetic preference data obtained from thought tree paths. Data and code are available at: https://github.com/lijiazheng99/thought{\\_}tree{\\_}assessment."}
{"Title": "LOCR: Location-Guided Transformer for Optical Character Recognition", "Abstract": "Academic documents are packed with texts, equations, tables, and figures, requiring comprehensive understanding for accurate Optical Character Recognition (OCR). While end-to-end OCR methods offer improved accuracy over layout-based approaches, they often grapple with significant repetition issues, especially with complex layouts in Out-Of-Domain (OOD) documents.To tackle this issue, we propose LOCR, a model that integrates location guiding into the transformer architecture during autoregression. We train the model on an original large-scale dataset comprising over 53M text-location pairs from 89K academic document pages, including bounding boxes for words, tables and mathematical symbols. LOCR adeptly handles various formatting elements and generates content in Markdown language. It outperforms all existing methods in our test set constructed from arXiv.LOCR also eliminates repetition in the arXiv dataset, and reduces repetition frequency in OOD documents, from 13.19{\\%} to 0.04{\\%} for natural science documents. Additionally, LOCR features an interactive OCR mode, facilitating the generation of complex documents through a few location prompts from human."}
{"Title": "Sing it, Narrate it: Quality Musical Lyrics Translation", "Abstract": "Translating lyrics for musicals presents unique challenges due to the need to ensure high translation quality while adhering to singability requirements such as length and rhyme. Existing song translation approaches often prioritize these singability constraints at the expense of translation quality, which is crucial for musicals. This paper aims to enhance translation quality while maintaining key singability features. Our method consists of three main components. First, we create a dataset to train reward models for the automatic evaluation of translation quality. Second, to enhance both singability and translation quality, we implement a two-stage training process with filtering techniques. Finally, we introduce an inference-time optimization framework for translating entire songs. Extensive experiments, including both automatic and human evaluations, demonstrate significant improvements over baseline methods and validate the effectiveness of each component in our approach."}
{"Title": "Exploring Automated Keyword Mnemonics Generation with Large Language Models via Overgenerate-and-Rank", "Abstract": "In this paper, we study an under-explored area of language and vocabulary learning: keyword mnemonics, a technique for memorizing vocabulary through memorable associations with a target word via a verbal cue. Typically, creating verbal cues requires extensive human effort and is quite time-consuming, necessitating an automated method that is more scalable. We propose a novel overgenerate-and-rank method via prompting large language models (LLMs) to generate verbal cues and then ranking them according to psycholinguistic measures and takeaways from a pilot user study. To assess cue quality, we conduct both an automated evaluation of imageability and coherence, as well as a human evaluation involving English teachers and learners. Results show that LLM-generated mnemonics are comparable to human-generated ones in terms of imageability, coherence, and perceived usefulness, but there remains plenty of room for improvement due to the diversity in background and preference among language learners."}
{"Title": "Dual-teacher Knowledge Distillation for Low-frequency Word Translation", "Abstract": "Neural Machine Translation (NMT) models are trained on parallel corpora with unbalanced word frequency distribution. As a result, NMT models are likely to prefer high-frequency words than low-frequency ones despite low-frequency word may carry the crucial semantic information, which may hamper the translation quality once they are neglected. The objective of this study is to enhance the translation of meaningful but low-frequency words. Our general idea is to optimize the translation of low-frequency words through knowledge distillation. Specifically, we employ a low-frequency teacher model that excels in translating low-frequency words to guide the learning of the student model. To remain the translation quality of high-frequency words, we further introduce a dual-teacher distillation framework, leveraging both the low-frequency and high-frequency teacher models to guide the student model{'}s training. Our single-teacher distillation method already achieves a +0.64 BLEU improvements over the state-of-the-art method on the WMT 16 English-to-German translation task on the low-frequency test set. While our dual-teacher framework leads to +0.87, +1.24, +0.47, +0.87 and +0.86 BLEU improvements on the IWSLT 14 German-to-English, WMT 16 English-to-German, WMT 15 English-to-Czech, WMT 14 English-to-French and WMT 18 Chinese-to-English tasks respectively compared to the baseline, while maintaining the translation performance of high-frequency words."}
{"Title": "A Simple Angle-based Approach for Contrastive Learning of Unsupervised Sentence Representation", "Abstract": "Contrastive learning has been successfully adopted in VRL (visual representation learning) by constructing effective contrastive pairs. A promising baseline SimCSE has made notable breakthroughs in unsupervised SRL (sentence representation learning) following the success of contrastive learning. However, considering the difference between VRL and SRL, there is still room for designing a novel contrastive framework specially targeted for SRL. We pro- pose a novel angle-based similarity function for contrastive objective. By examining the gra- dient of our contrastive objective, we show that an angle-based similarity function incites better training dynamics on SRL than the off-the-shelf cosine similarity: (1) effectively pulling a posi- tive instance toward an anchor instance in the early stage of training and (2) not excessively repelling a false negative instance during the middle of training. Our experimental results on widely-utilized benchmarks demonstrate the ef- fectiveness and extensibility of our novel angle- based approach. Subsequent analyses establish its improved sentence representation power."}
{"Title": "Developing a Pragmatic Benchmark for Assessing Korean Legal Language Understanding in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable performance in the legal domain, with GPT-4 even passing the Uniform Bar Exam in the U.S. However their efficacy remains limited for non-standardized tasks and tasks in languages other than English. This underscores the need for careful evaluation of LLMs within each legal system before application.Here, we introduce KBL, a benchmark for assessing the Korean legal language understanding of LLMs, consisting of (1) 7 legal knowledge tasks (510 examples), (2) 4 legal reasoning tasks (288 examples), and (3) the Korean bar exam (4 domains, 53 tasks, 2,510 examples). First two datasets were developed in close collaboration with lawyers to evaluate LLMs in practical scenarios in a certified manner. Furthermore, considering legal practitioners{'} frequent use of extensive legal documents for research, we assess LLMs in both a closed book setting, where they rely solely on internal knowledge, and a retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) setting, using a corpus of Korean statutes and precedents. The results indicate substantial room and opportunities for improvement."}
{"Title": "Visual Pivoting Unsupervised Multimodal Machine Translation in Low-Resource Distant Language Pairs", "Abstract": "Unsupervised multimodal machine translation (UMMT) aims to leverage vision information as a pivot between two languages to achieve better performance on low-resource language pairs. However, there is presently a challenge: how to handle alignment between distant language pairs (DLPs) in UMMT. To this end, this paper proposes a visual pivoting UMMT method for DLPs. Specifically, we first construct a dataset containing two DLPs, including English-Uyghur and Chinese-Uyghur. We then apply the visual pivoting method for both to pre-training and fine-tuning, and we observe that the images on the encoder and decoder of UMMT have noticeable effects on DLPs. Finally, we introduce informative multi-granularity image features to facilitate further alignment of the latent space between the two languages. Experimental results show that the proposed method significantly outperforms several baselines on DLPs and close language pairs (CLPs)."}
{"Title": "Scalable Fine-tuning from Multiple Data Sources: A First-Order Approximation Approach", "Abstract": "We study the problem of fine-tuning a language model (LM) for a target task by optimally using the information from $n$ auxiliary tasks. This problem has broad applications in NLP, such as targeted instruction tuning and data selection in chain-of-thought fine-tuning. The key challenge of this problem is that not all auxiliary tasks are useful to improve the performance of the target task. Thus, choosing the right subset of auxiliary tasks is crucial. Conventional subset selection methods, such as forward {\\&} backward selection, are unsuitable for LM fine-tuning because they require repeated training on subsets of auxiliary tasks. This paper introduces a new algorithm to estimate model fine-tuning performances without repeated training. Our algorithm first performs multitask training using the data of all the tasks to obtain a meta initialization. Then, we approximate the model fine-tuning loss of a subset using functional values and gradients from the meta initialization. Empirically, we find that this gradient-based approximation holds with remarkable accuracy for twelve transformer-based LMs. Thus, we can now estimate fine-tuning performances on CPUs within a few seconds. We conduct extensive experiments to validate our approach, delivering a speedup of 30$\\times$ over conventional subset selection while incurring only 1{\\%} error of the true fine-tuning performances. In downstream evaluations of instruction tuning and chain-of-thought fine-tuning, our approach improves over prior methods that utilize gradient or representation similarity for subset selection by up to 3.8{\\%}."}
{"Title": "In-Context Learning May Not Elicit Trustworthy Reasoning: A-Not-B Errors in Pretrained Language Models", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in artificial intelligence have led to the creation of highly capable large language models (LLMs) that can perform tasks in a human-like manner. However, LLMs exhibit only infant-level cognitive abilities in certain areas. One such area is the A-Not-B error, a phenomenon seen in infants where they repeat a previously rewarded behavior despite well-observed changed conditions. This highlights their lack of inhibitory control {--} the ability to stop a habitual or impulsive response. In our work, we design a text-based multi-choice QA scenario similar to the A-Not-B experimental settings to systematically test the inhibitory control abilities of LLMs. We found that state-of-the-art LLMs (like Llama3-8b) perform consistently well with in-context learning (ICL) but make errors and show a significant drop of as many as 83.3{\\%} in reasoning tasks when the context changes trivially. This suggests that LLMs only have inhibitory control abilities on par with human infants in this regard, often failing to suppress the previously established response pattern during ICL."}
{"Title": "MathFish: Evaluating Language Model Math Reasoning via Grounding in Educational Curricula", "Abstract": "To ensure that math curriculum is grade-appropriate and aligns with critical skills or concepts in accordance with educational standards, pedagogical experts can spend months carefully reviewing published math problems. Drawing inspiration from this process, our work presents a novel angle for evaluating language models{'} (LMs) mathematical abilities, by investigating whether they can discern skills and concepts enabled by math content. We contribute two datasets: one consisting of 385 fine-grained descriptions of K-12 math skills and concepts, or *standards*, from Achieve the Core (*ATC*), and another of 9.9K math problems labeled with these standards (*MathFish*). We develop two tasks for evaluating LMs{'} abilities to assess math problems: (1) verifying whether a problem aligns with a given standard, and (2) tagging a problem with all aligned standards. Working with experienced teachers, we find that LMs struggle to tag and verify standards linked to problems, and instead predict labels that are close to ground truth, but differ in subtle ways. We also show that LMs often generate problems that do not fully align with standards described in prompts, suggesting the need for careful scrutiny on use cases involving LMs for generating curricular materials. Finally, we categorize problems in GSM8k using math standards, allowing us to better understand why some problems are more difficult to solve for models than others."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Multi-Label Text Classification under Label-Dependent Noise: A Label-Specific Denoising Framework", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in noisy multi-label text classification have primarily relied on the class-conditional noise (CCN) assumption, which treats each label independently undergoing label flipping to generate noisy labels. However, in real-world scenarios, noisy labels often exhibit dependencies with true labels. In this study, we validate through hypothesis testing that real-world datasets are unlikely to adhere to the CCN assumption, indicating that label noise is dependent on the labels. To address this, we introduce a label-specific denoising framework designed to counteract label-dependent noise. The framework initially presents a holistic selection metric that evaluates noisy labels by concurrently considering loss information, ranking information, and feature centroid. Subsequently, it identifies and corrects noisy labels individually for each label category in a fine-grained manner. Extensive experiments on benchmark datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our method under both synthetic and real-world noise conditions, significantly improving performance over existing state-of-the-art models."}
{"Title": "Automatic Reconstruction of Ancient Chinese Pronunciations", "Abstract": "Reconstructing ancient Chinese pronunciation is a challenging task due to the scarcity of phonetic records. Different from historical linguistics{'} comparative approaches, we reformulate this problem into a temporal prediction task with masked language models, digitizing existing phonology rules into ACP (Ancient Chinese Phonology) dataset of 70,943 entries for 17,001 Chinese characters. Utilizing this dataset and Chinese character glyph information, our transformer-based model demonstrates superior performance on a series of reconstruction tasks, with or without prior phonological knowledge on the target historical period. Our work significantly advances the digitization and computational reconstruction of ancient Chinese phonology, providing a more complete and temporally contextualized resource for computational linguistics and historical research. The dataset and model training code are publicly available."}
{"Title": "Instance-Level Dynamic LoRAs Composition for Cross-Task Generalization", "Abstract": "Large language models perform well on tasks that have undergone fine-tuning of instructions, but their performance on completely unseen tasks is often less than ideal. To overcome the challenge of cross-task generalization, task-level LoRAs combination is proposed, which does not require training a model for new tasks. Instead, it learns the LoRA modules combination weights based on a small number of samples to form the task model. However, task-level LoRAs combination only utilizes a few task modules due to its reliance on the weight enumeration method, and it also ignores the specificity between different instances. Therefore, we proposed an instance-level LoRAs composition for cross-task generalization, which selects appropriate multiple task LoRA modules for each input instance and dynamically determines the composition weights. Our experiments on publicly available datasets show that our method outperforms the typical method, LoraHub, in 16 out of 27 tasks. We release the source code at https://github.com/noname822/iLoraComp.git"}
{"Title": "LongWanjuan: Towards Systematic Measurement for Long Text Quality", "Abstract": "The quality of training data is crucial for enhancing the long-text capabilities of foundation models. Despite existing efforts to refine data quality through heuristic rules and evaluations based on data diversity and difficulty, there{'}s a lack of systematic approaches specifically tailored for assessing long texts. Addressing this gap, our work systematically measures the quality of long texts by evaluating three fundamental linguistic dimensions: coherence, cohesion, and complexity. Drawing inspiration from the aforementioned three dimensions, we introduce a suite of metrics designed to evaluate the quality of long texts, encompassing both statistical and pre-trained language model-based ones. Leveraging these metrics, we present LongWanjuan, a bilingual dataset specifically tailored to enhance the training of language models for long-text tasks with over 160B tokens. In LongWanjuan, we categorize long texts into holistic, aggregated, and chaotic types, enabling a detailed analysis of long-text quality. Furthermore, we devise a data mixture recipe that strategically balances different types of long texts within LongWanjuan, leading to significant improvements in model performance on long-text tasks."}
{"Title": "Large Language Model for Multi-Domain Translation: Benchmarking and Domain CoT Fine-tuning", "Abstract": "Achieving consistent high-quality machine translation (MT) across diverse domains remains a significant challenge, primarily due to the limited and imbalanced parallel training data available in various domains. While large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive general understanding and generation abilities, their potential in multi-domain MT is under-explored. We establish a comprehensive benchmark for multi-domain translation, featuring 25 German\u00e2\u0087\u0094English and 22 Chinese\u00e2\u0087\u0094English test sets respectively covering 15 domains. Our evaluation of prominent LLMs reveals a discernible performance gap against traditional MT systems, highlighting domain overfitting and catastrophic forgetting issues after fine-tuning on domain-limited corpora. To mitigate this, we propose a domain Chain of Thought (CoT) fine-tuning technique that utilizes the intrinsic multi-domain intelligence of LLMs to improve translation performance. This method inspires the LLM to perceive domain information from the source text, which then serves as a helpful hint to guide the translation process. Despite being trained on a small dataset of four domains, our CoT fine-tune approach achieves notable enhancements in translation accuracy and domain robustness than traditional fine-tuning, as evidenced by an average 1.53 BLEU score increase in over 20 German\u00e2\u0086\u0092English distinct out-of-domain tests."}
{"Title": "TriageAgent: Towards Better Multi-Agents Collaborations for Large Language Model-Based Clinical Triage", "Abstract": "The global escalation in emergency department patient visits poses significant challenges to efficient clinical management, particularly in clinical triage. Traditionally managed by human professionals, clinical triage is susceptible to substantial variability and high workloads. Although large language models (LLMs) demonstrate promising reasoning and understanding capabilities, directly applying them to clinical triage remains challenging due to the complex and dynamic nature of the clinical triage task. To address these issues, we introduce TriageAgent, a novel heterogeneous multi-agent framework designed to enhance collaborative decision-making in clinical triage. TriageAgent leverages LLMs for role-playing, incorporating self-confidence and early-stopping mechanisms in multi-round discussions to improve document reasoning and classification precision for triage tasks. In addition, TriageAgent employs the medical Emergency Severity Index (ESI) handbook through a retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) approach to provide precise clinical knowledge and integrates both coarse- and fine-grained ESI-level predictions in the decision-making process. Extensive experiments demonstrate that TriageAgent outperforms state-of-the-art LLM-based methods on three clinical triage test sets. Furthermore, we have released the first public benchmark dataset for clinical triage with corresponding ESI levels and human expert performance for comparison."}
{"Title": "Generative Deduplication For Socia Media Data Selection", "Abstract": "Social media data exhibits severe redundancy caused by its noisy nature. It leads to increased training time and model bias in its processing. To address this issue, we propose a novel Generative Deduplication framework for social media data selection by removing semantically duplicate data. While related work involves data selection in the task-specific training, our model functions as an efficient pre-processing method to universally enhance social media NLP pipelines. Specifically, we train a generative model via self-supervised learning to predict keyword to capture the semantics of noisy social media text for deduplication. Meanwhile, time-dimensional Gaussian noise is added to improve training complexity and avoid learning trivial features. Extensive experiments suggest that our model can better reduce training samples while improving performance than baselines. The results show our model{'}s potential to broadly advance social media language understanding in effectiveness and efficiency."}
{"Title": "Gender Bias in Decision-Making with Large Language Models: A Study of Relationship Conflicts", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) acquire beliefs about gender from training data and can therefore generate text with stereotypical gender attitudes. Prior studies have demonstrated model generations favor one gender or exhibit stereotypes about gender, but have not investigated the complex dynamics that can influence model reasoning and decision-making involving gender. We study gender equity within LLMs through a decision-making lens with a new dataset, DeMET Prompts, containing scenarios related to intimate, romantic relationships. We explore nine relationship configurations through name pairs across three name lists (men, women, neutral). We investigate equity in the context of gender roles through numerous lenses: typical and gender-neutral names, with and without model safety enhancements, same and mixed-gender relationships, and egalitarian versus traditional scenarios across various topics. While all models exhibit the same biases (women favored, then those with gender-neutral names, and lastly men), safety guardrails reduce bias. In addition, models tend to circumvent traditional male dominance stereotypes and side with {``}traditionally female{''} individuals more often, suggesting relationships are viewed as a female domain by the models."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Biases in Context-Dependent Sexual and Reproductive Health Questions", "Abstract": "Chat-based large language models have the opportunity to empower individuals lacking high-quality healthcare access to receive personalized information across a variety of topics. However, users may ask underspecified questions that require additional context for a model to correctly answer. We study how large language model biases are exhibited through these contextual questions in the healthcare domain. To accomplish this, we curate a dataset of sexual and reproductive healthcare questions (ContextSRH) that are dependent on age, sex, and location attributes. We compare models{'} outputs with and without demographic context to determine answer alignment among our contextual questions. Our experiments reveal biases in each of these attributes, where young adult female users are favored."}
{"Title": "Self-Evaluation of Large Language Model based on Glass-box Features", "Abstract": "The proliferation of open-source Large Language Models (LLMs) underscores the pressing need for evaluation methods. Existing works primarily rely on external evaluators, focusing on training and prompting strategies. However, a crucial aspect {--} model-aware glass-box features {--} is overlooked. In this study, we explore the utility of glass-box features under the scenario of self-evaluation, namely applying an LLM to evaluate its own output. We investigate various glass-box feature groups and discovered that the softmax distribution serves as a reliable quality indicator for self-evaluation. Experimental results on public benchmarks validate the feasibility of self-evaluation of LLMs using glass-box features."}
{"Title": "FASTTRACK: Reliable Fact Tracing via Clustering and LLM-Powered Evidence Validation", "Abstract": "Fact tracing seeks to identify specific training examples that serve as the knowledge source for a given query. Existing approaches to fact tracing rely on assessing the similarity between each training sample and the query along a certain dimension, such as lexical similarity, gradient, or embedding space. However, these methods fall short of effectively distinguishing between samples that are merely relevant and those that actually provide supportive evidence for the information sought by the query. This limitation often results in suboptimal effectiveness. Moreover, these approaches necessitate the examination of the similarity of individual training points for each query, imposing significant computational demands and creating a substantial barrier for practical applications. This paper introduces FASTTRACK, a novel approach that harnesses the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) to validate supportive evidence for queries and at the same time clusters the training database towards a reduced extent for LLMs to trace facts. Our experiments show that FASTTRACK substantially outperforms existing methods in both accuracy and efficiency, achieving more than 100{\\%} improvement in F1 score over the state-of-the-art methods while being x33 faster than TracIn."}
{"Title": "PKAD: Pretrained Knowledge is All You Need to Detect and Mitigate Textual Backdoor Attacks", "Abstract": "In textual backdoor attacks, attackers insert poisoned samples with triggered inputs and target labels into training datasets to manipulate model behavior, threatening the model{'}s security and reliability. Current defense methods can generally be categorized into inference-time and training-time ones. The former often requires a part of clean samples to set detection thresholds, which may be hard to obtain in practical application scenarios, while the latter usually requires an additional retraining or unlearning process to get a clean model, significantly increasing training costs. To avoid these drawbacks, we focus on developing a practical defense method before model training without using any clean samples. Our analysis reveals that with the help of a pre-trained language model (PLM), poisoned samples, different from clean ones, exhibit mismatched relationship and shared characteristics. Based on these observations, we further propose a two-stage poison detection strategy solely leveraging insights from PLM before model training. Extensive experiments confirm our approach{'}s effectiveness, achieving better performance than current leading methods more swiftly. Our code is available at https://github.com/Ascian/PKAD."}
{"Title": "Merely Judging Metaphor is Not Enough: Research on Reasonable Metaphor Detection", "Abstract": "Metaphor, as an advanced form of cognition, is challenging to understand their meaning. Current metaphor detection tasks only provide labels (i.e., metaphor or literal) without interpreting how to understand them. In this paper, we improve the metaphor detection task and explore the reason of metaphor. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first work to reason about metaphor using mainstream Large Language Models (LLMs). Specifically, we utilized ChatGPT3.5 to expand the mainstream datasets in current metaphor detection, including VUA ALL, TroFi, and MOH-X. We input the original sentence, target word, and usage (metaphor or literal) into ChatGPT, guiding it to generate corresponding metaphor reason. Then, we designed supervised baseline experiments (e.g., RoBERTa, GPT-2) and zero-shot experiments with LLMs (e.g., LLaMA3). For the results generated by the above experiments, we provided the case study. We devised four methods that include manual evaluation to evaluate the reason performance of the model, and discussed extensively the advantages and disadvantages of these evaluation methods. Our code is available at https://github.com/yc-cy/Metaphorical-Reasoning."}
{"Title": "Can we teach language models to gloss endangered languages?", "Abstract": "Interlinear glossed text (IGT) is a popular format in language documentation projects, where each morpheme is labeled with a descriptive annotation. Automating the creation of interlinear glossed text would be desirable to reduce annotator effort and maintain consistency across annotated corpora. Prior research has explored a number of statistical and neural methods for automatically producing IGT. As large language models (LLMs) have showed promising results across multilingual tasks, even for rare, endangered languages, it is natural to wonder whether they can be utilized for the task of generating IGT. We explore whether LLMs can be effective at the task of interlinear glossing with in-context learning, without any traditional training. We propose new approaches for selecting examples to provide in-context, observing that targeted selection can significantly improve performance. We find that LLM-based methods beat standard transformer baselines, despite requiring no training at all. These approaches still underperform state-of-the-art supervised systems for the task, but are highly practical for researchers outside of the NLP community, requiring minimal effort to use."}
{"Title": "On the token distance modeling ability of higher RoPE attention dimension", "Abstract": "Length extrapolation algorithms based on Rotary position embedding (RoPE) have shown promising results in extending the context length of language models. However, understanding how position embedding can capture longer-range contextual information remains elusive. Based on the intuition that different dimensions correspond to different frequency of changes in RoPE encoding, we conducted a dimension-level analysis to investigate the correlation between a hidden dimension of an attention head and its contribution to capturing long-distance dependencies. Using our correlation metric, we identified a particular type of attention heads, which we named Positional Heads, from various length-extrapolated models. These heads exhibit a strong focus on long-range information interaction and play a pivotal role in long input processing, as evidence by our ablation. We further demonstrate the correlation between the efficiency of length extrapolation and the extension of the high-dimensional attention allocation of these heads. The identification of Positional Heads provides insights for future research in long-text comprehension."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Byzantine-Resistant Aggregations with Client Embedding", "Abstract": "Byzantine-resistant aggregations detect poisonous clients and discard them to ensure that the global model is not poisoned or attacked by malicious clients. However, these aggregations are mainly conducted on the parameter space, and the parameter distances cannot reflect the data distribution divergences between clients. Therefore, existing Byzantine-resistant aggregations cannot defend against backdoor injection by malicious attackers in federated natural language tasks. In this paper, we propose the client embedding for malicious client detection to enhance Byzantine-resistant aggregations. The distances between client embeddings are required to reflect the data distribution divergences of the corresponding clients. Experimental results validate the effectiveness of the proposed client embeddings."}
{"Title": "Exploiting Careful Design of SVM Solution for Aspect-term Sentiment Analysis", "Abstract": "Aspect-term sentiment analysis (ATSA) identifies fine-grained sentiments towards specific aspects of the text. While pre-trained language models (PLMs) have set the state-of-the-art (SOTA) for ATSA, they are resource-intensive due to their large model sizes, restricting their wide applications to resource-constrained scenarios. Conversely, conventional machine learning methods, such as Support Vector Machines (SVMs), offer the benefit of less resource requirement but have lower predictive accuracy. This paper introduces an innovative pipeline, termed SVM-ATSA, which bridges the gap between the accuracy of SVM-based methods and the efficiency of PLM-based methods. To improve the feature expression of SVMs and better adapt to the ATSA task, SVM-ATSA decomposes the learning problem into multiple view subproblems, and dynamically selects as well as constructs features with reinforcement learning. The experimental results demonstrate that SVM-ATSA surpasses SOTA PLM-based methods in predictive accuracy while maintaining a faster inference speed and significantly reducing the number of model parameters."}
{"Title": "Learning to Generate Rules for Realistic Few-Shot Relation Classification: An Encoder-Decoder Approach", "Abstract": "We propose a neuro-symbolic approach for realistic few-shot relation classification via rules. Instead of building neural models to predict relations, we design them to output straightforward rules that can be used to extract relations. The rules are generated using custom T5-style Encoder-Decoder Language Models. Crucially, our rules are fully interpretable and pliable (i.e., humans can easily modify them to boost performance). Through a combination of rules generated by these models along with a very effective, novel baseline, we demonstrate a few-shot relation-classification performance that is comparable to or stronger than the state of the art on the Few-Shot TACRED and NYT29 benchmarks while increasing interpretability and maintaining pliability."}
{"Title": "Plot Twist: Multimodal Models Don't Comprehend Simple Chart Details", "Abstract": "Recent advances in multimodal models show remarkable performance in real-world benchmarks for chart and figure understanding like ChartQA that involve interpreting trends, comparing data points, and extracting insights from visuals.In this paper, we investigate the extent to which these models truly comprehend the underlying information in charts by posing direct, elementary questions about simple features such as axes ranges and values to examine their fundamental visual understanding abilities in the context of charts.Our questions are applied to two sets of figures: synthetic and real-world.The empirical evaluation of 5 popular multimodal models on our dataset reveals shortfalls in understanding charts and figures, contrary to what their performance on complex benchmarks might suggest.For instance, Gemini Pro Vision only achieves 57.9{\\%} accuracy on our elementary set of questions on real-world plots, while other popular multimodal models showed similar or less performance.This work highlights an important limitation of current multimodal models, and cautions against overly optimistic interpretations of their abilities based on results of canonical evaluations."}
{"Title": "HateCOT: An Explanation-Enhanced Dataset for Generalizable Offensive Speech Detection via Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The widespread use of social media necessitates reliable and efficient detection of offensive content to mitigate harmful effects. Although sophisticated models perform well on individual datasets, they often fail to generalize due to varying definitions and labeling of {``}offensive content.{''} In this paper, we introduce HateCOT, an English dataset with over 52,000 samples from diverse sources, featuring explanations generated by GPT-3.5Turbo and curated by humans. We demonstrate that pretraining on HateCOT significantly enhances the performance of open-source Large Language Models on three benchmark datasets for offensive content detection in both zero-shot and few-shot settings, despite differences in domain and task. Additionally, HateCOT facilitates effective K-shot fine-tuning of LLMs with limited data and improves the quality of their explanations, as confirmed by our human evaluation."}
{"Title": "Giving Control Back to Models: Enabling Offensive Language Detection Models to Autonomously Identify and Mitigate Biases", "Abstract": "The rapid development of social media has led to an increase in online harassment and offensive speech, posing significant challenges for effective content moderation. Existing automated detection models often exhibit a bias towards predicting offensive speech based on specific vocabulary, which not only compromises model fairness but also potentially exacerbates biases against vulnerable and minority groups. Addressing these issues, this paper proposes a bias self-awareness and data self-iteration framework for mitigating model biases. This framework aims to {``}giving control back to models: enabling offensive language detection models to autonomously identify and mitigate biases{''} through bias self-awareness algorithms and self-iterative data augmentation method. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed framework effectively reduces the false positive rate of models in both in-distribution and out-of-distribution tests, enhances model accuracy and fairness, and shows promising performance improvements in detecting offensive speech on larger-scale datasets."}
{"Title": "Toolken+: Improving LLM Tool Usage with Reranking and a Reject Option", "Abstract": "The recently proposed ToolkenGPT tool learning paradigm demonstrates promising performance but suffers from two major issues: first, it cannot benefit from tool documentation, and second, it often makes mistakes in whether to use a tool at all. We introduce Toolken+ that mitigates the first problem by reranking top-k tools selected by ToolkenGPT and the second problem with a special REJECT option such that the model will generate a vocabulary token if REJECT is ranked first. We demonstrate the effectiveness of Toolken+ on multistep numerical reasoning and tool selection tasks."}
{"Title": "SecureSQL: Evaluating Data Leakage of Large Language Models as Natural Language Interfaces to Databases", "Abstract": "With the widespread application of Large Language Models (LLMs) in Natural Language Interfaces to Databases (NLIDBs), concerns about security issues in NLIDBs have been increasing gradually. However, research on sensitive data leakage in NLIDBs is relatively limited. Therefore, we propose a benchmark to assess the potential of language models to leak sensitive data when generating SQL queries. This benchmark covers 932 samples from 34 different domains, including medical, legal, financial, and political aspects. We evaluate 15 models from six LLM families, and the results show that the model with the best performance has an accuracy of 61.7{\\%}, whereas humans achieve an accuracy of 94{\\%}. Most models perform close to or even below the level of random selection. We also evaluate two common attack methods, namely prompt injection and inference attacks, as well as a defense method based on chain-of-thoughts (COT) prompting. Experimental results show that both attack methods significantly impact the model, while the defense method based on COT prompting dose not significantly improve accuracy, further highlighting the severity of sensitive data leakage issues in NLIDBs. We hope this research will draw more attention and further study from the researchers on this issue."}
{"Title": "Llama SLayer 8B: Shallow Layers Hold the Key to Knowledge Injection", "Abstract": "As a manner to augment pretrained large language models (LLM), knowledge injection is critical to develop vertical domain large models and has been widely studied. While most current approaches, including parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) and block expansion methods, uniformly apply knowledge across all LLM layers, it raises the question: are all layers equally crucial for knowledge injection? We embark upon evaluating the importance of each layer to locate the optimal layer range for knowledge injection. Intuitively, more important layers should play more critical roles in knowledge injection and deserve denser injection. We observe performance dips in question-answering benchmarks after the removal or expansion of the shallow layers, and the degradation shrinks as the layer gets deeper, indicating that the shallow layers hold the key to knowledge injection. This insight leads us to propose the S strategy, a post-pretraining strategy of selectively enhancing shallow layers while pruning the less effective deep ones. Based on this strategy, we introduce Llama Slayer 8B. We experimented on the corpus of code {\\&} math and demonstrated the effectiveness of our strategy. Further experiments across different LLM, Mistral-7B, and a legal corpus confirmed the approach{'}s general applicability, underscoring its wide-ranging efficacy."}
{"Title": "Entity or Relation Embeddings? An Analysis of Encoding Strategies for Relation Extraction", "Abstract": "Existing approaches to relation extraction obtain relation embeddings by concatenating embeddings of the head and tail entities. Despite the popularity of this approach, we find that such representations mostly capture the types of the entities involved, leading to false positives and confusion between relations that involve entities of the same type. Another possibility is to use a prompt with a [MASK] token to directly learn relation embeddings, but this approach tends to perform poorly. We show that this underperformance comes from the fact that information about entity types is insufficiently captured by the [MASK] embeddings. We therefore propose a simple model, which combines such [MASK] embeddings with entity embeddings. Despite its simplicity, our model consistently outperforms the state-of-the-art across several benchmarks, even when the entity embeddings are obtained from a pre-trained entity typing model. We also experiment with a self-supervised pre-training strategy which further improves the results."}
{"Title": "Self-Consistency Boosts Calibration for Math Reasoning", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Distilling Instruction-following Abilities of Large Language Models with Task-aware Curriculum Planning", "Abstract": "Instruction tuning aims to align large language models (LLMs) with open-domain instructions and human-preferred responses. While several studies have explored autonomous approaches to distilling and annotating instructions from powerful proprietary LLMs, such as ChatGPT, they often neglect the impact of the distributions and characteristics of tasks, together with the varying difficulty of instructions in training sets. This oversight can lead to imbalanced knowledge capabilities and poor generalization powers of student LLMs. To address these challenges, we introduce Task-Aware Curriculum Planning for Instruction Refinement (TAPIR), a multi-round distillation framework that utilizes an oracle LLM to select instructions that are difficult for a student LLM to follow. To balance the student{'}s capabilities, task distributions in training sets are adjusted with responses automatically refined according to their corresponding tasks. In addition, by incorporating curriculum planning, our approach systematically escalates the difficulty levels of tasks, progressively enhancing the student LLM{'}s capabilities. We rigorously evaluate TAPIR using several widely recognized benchmarks (such as AlpacaEval 2.0, MT-Bench, etc.) and multiple student LLMs. Empirical results demonstrate that student LLMs, trained with our method and less training data, outperform larger instruction-tuned models and strong distillation baselines."}
{"Title": "On Creating an English-Thai Code-switched Machine Translation in Medical Domain", "Abstract": "Machine translation (MT) in the medical domain plays a pivotal role in enhancing healthcare quality and disseminating medical knowledge. Despite advancements in English-Thai MT technology, common MT approaches often underperform in the medical field due to their inability to precisely translate medical terminologies. Our research prioritizes not merely improving translation accuracy but also maintaining medical terminology in English within the translated text through code-switched (CS) translation. We developed a method to produce CS medical translation data, fine-tuned a CS translation model with this data, and evaluated its performance against strong baselines, such as Google Neural Machine Translation (NMT) and GPT-3.5/GPT-4. Our model demonstrated competitive performance in automatic metrics and was highly favored in human preference evaluations. Our evaluation result also shows that medical professionals significantly prefer CS translations that maintain critical English terms accurately, even if it slightly compromises fluency. Our code and test set are publicly available https://github.com/preceptorai-org/NLLB{\\_}CS{\\_}EM{\\_}NLP2024."}
{"Title": "CogGPT: Unleashing the Power of Cognitive Dynamics on Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Cognitive dynamics, which refer to the evolution in human cognitive processes, are pivotal to advance human understanding of the world. Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) highlight their potential for cognitive simulation. However, these LLM-based cognitive studies primarily focus on replicating human cognition in specific contexts, overlooking the inherently dynamic nature of cognition. To bridge this gap, we explore the cognitive dynamics of LLMs and present a corresponding task inspired by longitudinal studies. Toward the task, we develop CogBench, a novel benchmark to assess the cognitive dynamics of LLMs and validate it through participant surveys. We also design two evaluation metrics for CogBench, including Authenticity and Rationality. Recognizing the inherent static nature of LLMs, we further introduce CogGPT for the task, which features an innovative iterative cognitive mechanism to develop lifelong cognitive dynamics. Empirical results demonstrate the superiority of CogGPT over several existing methods, particularly in its ability to facilitate role-specific cognitive dynamics under continuous information flows. We will release the code and data to enable further research."}
{"Title": "Can LLMs Recognize Toxicity? A Structured Investigation Framework and Toxicity Metric", "Abstract": "In the pursuit of developing Large Language Models (LLMs) that adhere to societal standards, it is imperative to detect the toxicity in the generated text. The majority of existing toxicity metrics rely on encoder models trained on specific toxicity datasets, which are susceptible to out-of-distribution (OOD) problems and depend on the dataset{'}s definition of toxicity. In this paper, we introduce a robust metric grounded on LLMs to flexibly measure toxicity according to the given definition. We first analyze the toxicity factors, followed by an examination of the intrinsic toxic attributes of LLMs to ascertain their suitability as evaluators. Finally, we evaluate the performance of our metric with detailed analysis. Our empirical results demonstrate outstanding performance in measuring toxicity within verified factors, improving on conventional metrics by 12 points in the F1 score. Our findings also indicate that upstream toxicity significantly influences downstream metrics, suggesting that LLMs are unsuitable for toxicity evaluations within unverified factors."}
{"Title": "Toeing the Party Line: Election Manifestos as a Key to Understand Political Discourse on Twitter", "Abstract": "Political discourse on Twitter is a moving target: politicians continuously make statements about their positions. It is therefore crucial to track their discourse on social media to understand their ideological positions and goals. However, Twitter data is also challenging to work with since it is ambiguous and often dependent on social context, and consequently, recent work on political positioning has tended to focus strongly on manifestos (parties{'} electoral programs) rather than social media.In this paper, we extend recently proposed methods to predict pairwise positional similarities between parties from the manifesto case to the Twitter case, using hashtags as a signal to fine-tune text representations, without the need for manual annotation. We verify the efficacy of fine-tuning and conduct a series of experiments that assess the robustness of our method for low-resource scenarios. We find that our method yields stable positionings reflective of manifesto positionings, both in scenarios with all tweets of candidates across years available and when only smaller subsets from shorter time periods are available. This indicates that it is possible to reliably analyze the relative positioning of actors without the need for manual annotation, even in the noisier context of social media."}
{"Title": "UniTabNet: Bridging Vision and Language Models for Enhanced Table Structure Recognition", "Abstract": "In the digital era, table structure recognition technology is a critical tool for processing and analyzing large volumes of tabular data. Previous methods primarily focus on visual aspects of table structure recovery but often fail to effectively comprehend the textual semantics within tables, particularly for descriptive textual cells. In this paper, we introduce UniTabNet, a novel framework for table structure parsing based on the image-to-text model. UniTabNet employs a {``}divide-and-conquer{''} strategy, utilizing an image-to-text model to decouple table cells and integrating both physical and logical decoders to reconstruct the complete table structure. We further enhance our framework with the Vision Guider, which directs the model{'}s focus towards pertinent areas, thereby boosting prediction accuracy. Additionally, we introduce the Language Guider to refine the model{'}s capability to understand textual semantics in table images. Evaluated on prominent table structure datasets such as PubTabNet, PubTables1M, WTW, and iFLYTAB, UniTabNet achieves a new state-of-the-art performance, demonstrating the efficacy of our approach. The code will also be made publicly available."}
{"Title": "PolyWER: A Holistic Evaluation Framework for Code-Switched Speech Recognition", "Abstract": "Code-switching in speech, particularly between languages that use different scripts, can potentially be correctly transcribed in various forms, including different ways of transliteration of the embedded language into the matrix language script. Traditional methods for measuring accuracy, such as Word Error Rate (WER), are too strict to address this challenge. In this paper, we introduce PolyWER, a proposed framework for evaluating speech recognition systems to handle language-mixing. PolyWER accepts transcriptions of code-mixed segments in different forms, including transliterations and translations. We demonstrate the algorithms use cases through detailed examples, and evaluate it against human judgement. To enable the use of this metric, we appended the annotations of a publicly available Arabic-English code-switched dataset with transliterations and translations of code-mixed speech. We also utilize these additional annotations for fine-tuning ASR models and compare their performance using PolyWER. In addition to our main finding on PolyWER{'}s effectiveness, our experiments show that alternative annotations could be more effective for fine-tuning monolingual ASR models."}
{"Title": "A Deep Analysis of the Impact of Multiword Expressions and Named Entities on Chinese-English Machine Translations", "Abstract": "In this paper, we present a study on the impact of so-called multiword expressions (MWEs) and multiword named entities (NEs) on the performance of Chinese-English machine translation (MT) systems. Built on an extended version of the data from the WMT22 Metrics Shared Task (with extra labels of 9 types of Chinese MWEs, and 19 types of Chinese multiword NEs) which includes scores and error annotations provided by human experts, we make further extraction of MWE- and NE-related translation errors. By investigating the human evaluation scores and the error rates on each category of MWEs and NEs, we find that: 1) MT systems tend to perform significantly worse on Chinese sentences with most kinds of MWEs and NEs; 2) MWEs and NEs which make up of about twenty percent of tokens, i.e. characters in Chinese, result in one-third of translation errors; 3) for 13 categories of MWEs and NEs, the error rates exceed 50{\\%} with the highest to be 84.8{\\%}. Based on the results, we emphasize that MWEs and NEs are still a bottleneck issue for MT and special attention to MWEs and NEs should be paid to further improving the performance of MT systems."}
{"Title": "SCA: Selective Compression Attention for Efficiently Extending the Context Window of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have achieved impressive performance across various domains, but the limited context window and the expensive computational cost of processing long texts restrict their more comprehensive application. In this paper, we propose Selective Compression Attention (SCA), a general and effective method to expand the context window and reduce memory footprint by compressing the KV cache of LLMs. Specifically, through preliminary experiments, we found that the KV cache contains many similar vectors, resulting in information redundancy, which can be compressed by retaining representative vectors and discarding others. Therefore, SCA continuously selects the most distinctive vectors to keep through a greedy algorithm, reducing information loss during compression. Extensive experiments on various tasks verify the effectiveness of our method. Compared with existing methods, SCA can significantly reduce the impact on model performance under the same compression ratio. Furthermore, the context window of LLMs can be efficiently expanded using SCA without any training, which can even achieve better performance than specially fine-tuned long context models."}
{"Title": "FANTAstic SEquences and Where to Find Them: Faithful and Efficient API Call Generation through State-tracked Constrained Decoding and Reranking", "Abstract": "API call generation is the cornerstone of large language models{'} tool-using ability that provides access to the larger world. However, existing supervised and in-context learning approaches suffer from high training costs, poor data efficiency, and generated API calls that can be unfaithful to the API documentation and the user{'}s request. To address these limitations, we propose an output-side optimization approach called FANTASE. Two of the unique contributions of FANTASE are its State-Tracked Constrained Decoding (SCD) and Reranking components. SCD dynamically incorporates appropriate API constraints in the form of Token Search Trie for efficient and guaranteed generation faithfulness with respect to the API documentation. The Reranking component efficiently brings in the supervised signal by leveraging a lightweight model as the discriminator to rerank the beam-searched candidate generations of the large language model. We demonstrate the superior performance of FANTASE in API call generation accuracy, inference efficiency, and context efficiency with DSTC8 and API Bank datasets."}
{"Title": "Beyond Lines and Circles: Unveiling the Geometric Reasoning Gap in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate ever-increasing abilities in mathematical and algorithmic tasks, yet their geometric reasoning skills are underexplored. We investigate LLMs{'} abilities in constructive geometric problem-solving, {--} one of the most fundamental steps in developing human mathematical reasoning, revealing notable challenges in this domain. LLMs exhibit biases in variable names, struggle with 2D spatial relationships and planning, and hallucinate object placements. To this end, we introduce a framework that enhances LLMs{'} reasoning potential through a multi-agent system conducting internal dialogue. This work underscores LLMs{'} limitations in geometric reasoning and improves their capabilities through self-correction, collaboration, and diverse role specializations."}
{"Title": "AdaMoE: Token-Adaptive Routing with Null Experts for Mixture-of-Experts Language Models", "Abstract": "Mixture of experts (MoE) has become the standard for constructing production-level large language models (LLMs) due to its promise to boost model capacity without causing significant overheads. Nevertheless, existing MoE methods usually enforce a constant top-$k$ routing for all tokens, which is arguably restrictive because various tokens (e.g., ''{\\textless}EOS{\\textgreater}{''} vs. {``}apple{''}) may require various numbers of experts for feature abstraction. Lifting such a constraint can help make the most of limited resources and unleash the potential of the model for downstream tasks. In this sense, we introduce **AdaMoE** to realize token-adaptive routing for MoE, where different tokens are permitted to select a various number of experts. AdaMoE makes minimal modifications to the vanilla MoE with top-$k$ routing{---}it simply introduces a fixed number of *null experts*, which do not consume any FLOPs, to the expert set and increases the value of $k$. AdaMoE does not force each token to occupy a fixed number of null experts but ensures the average usage of the null experts with a load-balancing loss, leading to an adaptive number of null/true experts used by each token. AdaMoE exhibits a strong resemblance to MoEs with expert choice routing while allowing for trivial auto-regressive modeling. AdaMoE is easy to implement and can be effectively applied to pre-trained (MoE-)LLMs. Extensive studies show that AdaMoE can reduce average expert load (FLOPs) while achieving superior performance. For example, on the ARC-C dataset, applying our method to fine-tuning Mixtral-8x7B can reduce FLOPs by 14.5{\\%} while increasing accuracy by 1.69{\\%}.Code is available at [this link](https://github.com/CengZihao/AdaMoE)."}
{"Title": "Learning from Relevant Subgoals in Successful Dialogs using Iterative Training for Task-oriented Dialog Systems", "Abstract": "Task-oriented Dialog (ToD) systems have to solve multiple subgoals to accomplish user goals, whereas feedback is often obtained only at the end of the dialog. In this work, we propose SUIT (SUbgoal-aware ITerative Training), an iterative training approach for improving ToD systems. We sample dialogs from the model we aim to improve and determine subgoals that contribute to dialog success using distant supervision to obtain high quality training samples. We show how this data improves supervised fine-tuning or, alternatively, preference learning results. Performance improves when applying these steps over several iterations: SUIT reaches new state-of-the-art performance on a popular ToD benchmark."}
{"Title": "CLEAR: Can Language Models Really Understand Causal Graphs?", "Abstract": "Causal reasoning is a cornerstone of how humans interpret the world. To model and reason about causality, causal graphs offer a concise yet effective solution. Given the impressive advancements in language models, a crucial question arises: can they really understand causal graphs? To this end, we pioneer an investigation into language models{'} understanding of causal graphs. Specifically, we develop a framework to define causal graph understanding, by assessing language models{'} behaviors through four practical criteria derived from diverse disciplines (e.g., philosophy and psychology). We then develop CLEAR, a novel benchmark that defines three complexity levels and encompasses 20 causal graph-based tasks across these levels. Finally, based on our framework and benchmark, we conduct extensive experiments on six leading language models and summarize five empirical findings. Our results indicate that while language models demonstrate a preliminary understanding of causal graphs, significant potential for improvement remains."}
{"Title": "PromptKD: Distilling Student-Friendly Knowledge for Generative Language Models via Prompt Tuning", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) have raised concerns about inference costs, increasing the need for research into model compression. While knowledge distillation (KD) is a prominent method for this, research on KD for generative language models like LLMs is relatively sparse, and the approach of distilling student-friendly knowledge, which has shown promising performance in KD for classification models, remains unexplored in generative language models. To explore this approach, we propose PromptKD, a simple yet effective method that utilizes prompt tuning - for the first time in KD - to enable generative language models to transfer student-friendly knowledge. Unlike previous works in classification that require fine-tuning the entire teacher model for extracting student-friendly knowledge, PromptKD achieves similar effects by adding a small number of prompt tokens and tuning only the prompt with student guidance. Extensive experiments on instruction-following datasets show that PromptKD achieves state-of-the-art performance while adding only 0.0007{\\%} of the teacher{'}s parameters as prompts. Further analysis suggests that distilling student-friendly knowledge alleviates exposure bias effectively throughout the entire training process, leading to performance enhancements."}
{"Title": "M2QA: Multi-domain Multilingual Question Answering", "Abstract": "Generalization and robustness to input variation are core desiderata of machine learning research. Language varies along several axes, most importantly, language instance (e.g. French) and domain (e.g. news). While adapting NLP models to new languages within a single domain, or to new domains within a single language, is widely studied, research in joint adaptation is hampered by the lack of evaluation datasets. This prevents the transfer of NLP systems from well-resourced languages and domains to non-dominant language-domain combinations. To address this gap, we introduce M2QA, a multi-domain multilingual question answering benchmark.M2QA includes 13,500 SQuAD 2.0-style question-answer instances in German, Turkish, and Chinese for the domains of product reviews, news, and creative writing. We use M2QA to explore cross-lingual cross-domain performance of fine-tuned models and state-of-the-art LLMs and investigate modular approaches to domain and language adaptation.We witness **1)** considerable performance {\\_}variations{\\_} across domain-language combinations within model classes and **2)** considerable performance {\\_}drops{\\_} between source and target language-domain combinations across all model sizes. We demonstrate that M2QA is far from solved, and new methods to effectively transfer both linguistic and domain-specific information are necessary."}
{"Title": "Unveiling the Invisible: Captioning Videos with Metaphors", "Abstract": "Metaphors are a common communication tool used in our day-to-day life. The detection and generation of metaphors in textual form have been studied extensively but metaphors in other forms have been under-explored. Recent studies have shown that Vision-Language (VL) models cannot understand visual metaphors in memes and adverts. As of now, no probing studies have been done that involve complex language phenomena like metaphors with videos. Hence, we introduce a new VL task of describing the metaphors present in the videos in our work. To facilitate this novel task, we construct and release a manually created dataset with 705 videos and 2115 human-written captions, along with a new metric called Average Concept Distance (ACD), to automatically evaluate the creativity of the metaphors generated. We also propose a novel low-resource video metaphor captioning system: GIT-LLaVA, which obtains comparable performance to SoTA video language models on the proposed task. We perform a comprehensive analysis of existing video language models on this task and publish our dataset, models, and benchmark results to enable further research."}
{"Title": "How Reliable Are Automatic Evaluation Methods for Instruction-Tuned LLMs?", "Abstract": "Work on instruction-tuned Large Language Models (LLMs) has used automatic methods based on text overlap and LLM judgments as cost-effective alternatives to human evaluation. In this paper, we perform a meta-evaluation of such methods and assess their reliability across a broad range of tasks. In evaluating how well automatic methods align with human evaluations, correlation metrics are the most commonly employed method despite their inherent limitations when dealing with ties and different scales. To address these shortcomings, we use Pairwise Accuracy as an alternative to standard correlation measures. We observe that while automatic evaluation methods can approximate human ratings under specific conditions, their validity is highly context-dependent. Specifically, the simple ROUGE-L metric correlates very well with human ratings for short-answer English tasks but is unreliable in free-form generation tasks and cross-lingual scenarios. The effectiveness of the more advanced method of using GPT-4 as a judge diminishes significantly if reference answers are not included in the prompt, which is the scenario where this method has the potential to provide the most value compared to other metrics. Our findings enhance the understanding of how automatic methods should be applied and interpreted when developing and evaluating instruction-tuned LLMs."}
{"Title": "RippleCOT: Amplifying Ripple Effect of Knowledge Editing in Language Models via Chain-of-Thought In-Context Learning", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Authorship Obfuscation in Multilingual Machine-Generated Text Detection", "Abstract": "High-quality text generation capability of latest Large Language Models (LLMs) causes concerns about their misuse (e.g., in massive generation/spread of disinformation). Machine-generated text (MGT) detection is important to cope with such threats. However, it is susceptible to authorship obfuscation (AO) methods, such as paraphrasing, which can cause MGTs to evade detection. So far, this was evaluated only in monolingual settings. Thus, the susceptibility of recently proposed multilingual detectors is still unknown. We fill this gap by comprehensively benchmarking the performance of 10 well-known AO methods, attacking 37 MGT detection methods against MGTs in 11 languages (i.e., 10 {\\mbox{$\\times$}} 37 {\\mbox{$\\times$}} 11 = 4,070 combinations). We also evaluate the effect of data augmentation on adversarial robustness using obfuscated texts. The results indicate that all tested AO methods can cause evasion of automated detection in all tested languages, where homoglyph attacks are especially successful. However, some of the AO methods severely damaged the text, making it no longer readable or easily recognizable by humans (e.g., changed language, weird characters)."}
{"Title": "Comparing Edge-based and Node-based Methods on a Citation Prediction Task", "Abstract": "Citation Prediction, estimating whether paper a cites paper b, is particularly interesting in a forecasting setting where the model is trained on papers published before time t, and evaluated on papers published after h, where h is the forecast horizon. Performance improves with t (larger training sets) and degrades with h (longer forecast horizons). The trade-off between edge-based methods and node-based methods depends on t. Because edges grow faster than nodes, larger training sets favor edge-based methods.We introduce a new forecast-based Citation Prediction benchmark of 3 million papers to quantify these trends.Our benchmark shows that desirable policies for combining edge- and node-based methods depend on h and t.We release our benchmark, evaluation scripts, and embeddings."}
{"Title": "DAdEE: Unsupervised Domain Adaptation in Early Exit PLMs", "Abstract": "Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs) exhibit good accuracy and generalization ability across various tasks using self-supervision, but their large size results in high inference latency. Early Exit (EE) strategies handle the issue by allowing the samples to exit from classifiers attached to the intermediary layers, but they do not generalize well, as exit classifiers can be sensitive to domain changes. To address this, we propose Unsupervised Domain Adaptation in EE framework (DAdEE) that employs multi-level adaptation using knowledge distillation. DAdEE utilizes GAN-based adversarial adaptation at each layer to achieve domain-invariant representations, reducing the domain gap between the source and target domain across all layers. The attached exits not only speed up inference but also enhance domain adaptation by reducing catastrophic forgetting and mode collapse, making it more suitable for real-world scenarios. Experiments on tasks such as sentiment analysis, entailment classification, and natural language inference demonstrate that DAdEE consistently outperforms not only early exit methods but also various domain adaptation methods under domain shift scenarios. The anonymized source code is available at https://github.com/Div290/DAdEE."}
{"Title": "LaCo: Large Language Model Pruning via Layer Collapse", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Llamipa: An Incremental Discourse Parser", "Abstract": "This paper provides the first discourse parsing experiments with a large language model (LLM) finetuned on corpora annotated in the style of SDRT (Segmented Discourse Representation Theory, Asher (1993), Asher and Lascarides (2003)). The result is a discourse parser, Llamipa (Llama Incremental Parser), that leverages discourse context, leading to substantial performance gains over approaches that use encoder-only models to provide local, context-sensitive representations of discourse units. Furthermore, it is able to process discourse data incrementally, which is essential for the eventual use of discourse information in downstream tasks."}
{"Title": "Nebula: A discourse aware Minecraft Builder", "Abstract": "When engaging in collaborative tasks, humans efficiently exploit the semantic structure of a conversation to optimize verbal and nonverbal interactions. But in recent {``}language to code{''} or {``}language to action{''} models, this information is lacking. We show how incorporating the prior discourse and nonlinguistic context of a conversation situated in a nonlinguistic environment can improve the {``}language to action{''} component of such interactions. We finetune an LLM to predict actions based on prior context; our model, Nebula, doubles the net-action F1 score over the baseline on this task of Jayannavar et al. (2020). We also investigate our model{'}s ability to construct shapes and understand location descriptions using a synthetic dataset."}
{"Title": "Improving Referring Ability for Biomedical Language Models", "Abstract": "Existing auto-regressive large language models (LLMs) are primarily trained using documents from general domains. In the biomedical domain, continual pre-training is a prevalent method for domain adaptation to inject professional knowledge into powerful LLMs that have been pre-trained in general domains. Previous studies typically conduct standard pre-training by randomly packing multiple documents into a long pre-training sequence. Recently, some existing works suggest that enhancing the relatedness of documents within the same pre-training sequence may be advantageous. However, these studies primarily focus on general domains, which cannot be readily applied in the biomedical domain where the distinction of fine-grained topics is harder. Is it possible to further improve the pre-training for biomedical language models (LMs) using exactly the same corpus? In this paper, we explore an improved approach to continual pre-training, which is a prevalent method for domain adaptation, by utilizing information from the citation network in this challenging scenario. Empirical studies demonstrate that our proposed LinkLM data improves both the intra-sample and inter-sample referring abilities of auto-regressive LMs in the biomedical domain, encouraging more profound consideration of task-specific pre-training sequence design for continual pre-training."}
{"Title": "CapEEN: Image Captioning with Early Exits and Knowledge Distillation", "Abstract": "Deep neural networks (DNNs) have made significant progress in recognizing visual elements and generating descriptive text in image-captioning tasks. However, their improved performance comes from increased computational burden and inference latency. Early Exit (EE) strategies can be used to enhance their efficiency, but their adaptation presents challenges in image captioning as it requires varying levels of semantic information for accurate predictions. To overcome this, we introduce CapEEN to improve the performance of EE strategies using knowledge distillation. Inference in CapEEN is completed at intermediary layers if prediction confidence exceeds a predefined value learned from the training data. To account for real-world deployments, where target distributions could drift from that of training samples, we introduce a variant A-CapEEN to adapt the thresholds on the fly using Multi-armed bandits framework. Experiments on the MS COCO and Flickr30k datasets show that CapEEN gains speedup of $1.77\\times$ while maintaining competitive performance compared to the final layer, and A-CapEEN additionally offers robustness against distortions. The source code is available at https://github.com/Div290/CapEEN."}
{"Title": "LumberChunker: Long-Form Narrative Document Segmentation", "Abstract": "Modern NLP tasks increasingly rely on dense retrieval methods to access up-to-date and relevant contextual information. We are motivated by the premise that retrieval benefits from segments that can vary in size such that a content{'}s semantic independence is better captured. We propose LumberChunker, a method leveraging an LLM to dynamically segment documents, which iteratively prompts the LLM to identify the point within a group of sequential passages where the content begins to shift. To evaluate our method, we introduce GutenQA, a benchmark with 3000 {``}needle in a haystack{''} type of question-answer pairs derived from 100 public domain narrative books available on Project Gutenberg. Our experiments show that LumberChunker not only outperforms the most competitive baseline by 7.37{\\%} in retrieval performance (DCG@20) but also that, when integrated into a RAG pipeline, LumberChunker proves to be more effective than other chunking methods and competitive baselines, such as the Gemini 1.5M Pro."}
{"Title": "Exploring the Limits of Fine-grained LLM-based Physics Inference via Premise Removal Interventions", "Abstract": "Language models (LMs) can hallucinate when performing complex mathematical reasoning. Physics provides a rich domain for assessing their mathematical capabilities, where physical context requires that any symbolic manipulation satisfies complex semantics (\\textit{e.g.,} units, tensorial order). In this work, we systematically remove crucial context from prompts to force instances where model inference may be algebraically coherent, yet unphysical. We assess LM capabilities in this domain using a curated dataset encompassing multiple notations and Physics subdomains. Further, we improve zero-shot scores using synthetic in-context examples, and demonstrate non-linear degradation of derivation quality with perturbation strength via the progressive omission of supporting premises. We find that the models{'} mathematical reasoning is not physics-informed in this setting, where physical context is predominantly ignored in favour of reverse-engineering solutions."}
{"Title": "Unlocking Continual Learning Abilities in Language Models", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "On the Rigour of Scientific Writing: Criteria, Analysis, and Insights", "Abstract": "Rigour is crucial for scientific research as it ensures the reproducibility and validity of results and findings. Despite its importance, little work exists on modelling rigour computationally, and there is a lack of analysis on whether these criteria can effectively signal or measure the rigour of scientific papers in practice. In this paper, we introduce a bottom-up, data-driven framework to automatically identify and define rigour criteria and assess their relevance in scientific writing. Our framework includes rigour keyword extraction, detailed rigour definition generation, and salient criteria identification. Furthermore, our framework is domain-agnostic and can be tailored to the evaluation of scientific rigour for different areas, accommodating the distinct salient criteria across fields. We conducted comprehensive experiments based on datasets collected from different domains (e.g. ICLR, ACL) to demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework in modelling rigour. In addition, we analyse linguist patterns of rigour, revealing that framing certainty is crucial for enhancing the perception of scientific rigour, while suggestion certainty and probability uncertainty diminish it."}
{"Title": "MMUTF: Multimodal Multimedia Event Argument Extraction with Unified Template Filling", "Abstract": "With the advancement of multimedia technologies, news documents and user-generated content are often represented as multiple modalities, making Multimedia Event Extraction (MEE) an increasingly important challenge. However, recent MEE methods employ weak alignment strategies and data augmentation with simple classification models, which ignore the capabilities of natural language-formulated event templates for the challenging Event Argument Extraction (EAE) task. In this work, we focus on EAE and address this issue by introducing a unified template filling model that connects the textual and visual modalities via textual prompts. This approach enables the exploitation of cross-ontology transfer and the incorporation of event-specific semantics. Experiments on the M2E2 benchmark demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach. Our system surpasses the current SOTA on textual EAE by +7{\\%} F1, and performs generally better than the second-best systems for multimedia EAE."}
{"Title": "Not All Preference Pairs Are Created Equal: A Recipe for Annotation-Efficient Iterative Preference Learning", "Abstract": "Iterative preference learning, though yielding superior performances, requires online annotated preference labels. In this work, we study strategies to save annotation budgets while achieving competitive or even better performances for iterative preference learning. Built on intuitions from active learning, we empirically show that annotating those response pairs with $small$ margins is generally better than $large$ or $random$. Besides, experiments under the multi-iteration scenario suggest allocating more annotation budgets in the earlier iterations rather than later ones."}
{"Title": "Cross-lingual Contextualized Phrase Retrieval", "Abstract": "Phrase-level dense retrieval has shown many appealing characteristics in downstream NLP tasks by leveraging the fine-grained information that phrases offer. In our work, we propose a new task formulation of dense retrieval, cross-lingual contextualized phrase retrieval, which aims to augment cross-lingual applications by addressing polysemy using context information. However, the lack of specific training data and models are the primary challenges to achieve our goal. As a result, we extract pairs of cross-lingual phrases using word alignment information automatically induced from parallel sentences. Subsequently, we train our Cross-lingual Contextualized Phrase Retriever (CCPR) using contrastive learning, which encourages the hidden representations of phrases with similar contexts and semantics to align closely. Comprehensive experiments on both the cross-lingual phrase retrieval task and a downstream task, i.e, machine translation, demonstrate the effectiveness of CCPR. On the phrase retrieval task, CCPR surpasses baselines by a significant margin, achieving a top-1 accuracy that is at least 13 points higher. When utilizing CCPR to augment the large-language-model-based translator, it achieves average gains of 0.7 and 1.5 in BERTScore for translations from X={\\textgreater}En and vice versa, respectively, on WMT16 dataset. We will release our code and data."}
{"Title": "VideoINSTA: Zero-shot Long Video Understanding via Informative Spatial-Temporal Reasoning with LLMs", "Abstract": "In the video-language domain, recent works in leveraging zero-shot Large Language Model-based reasoning for video understanding have become competitive challengers to previous end-to-end models. However, long video understanding presents unique challenges due to the complexity of reasoning over extended timespans, even for zero-shot LLM-based approaches. The challenge of information redundancy in long videos prompts the question of what specific information is essential for large language models (LLMs) and how to leverage them for complex spatial-temporal reasoning in long-form video analysis. We propose a framework VideoINSTA , i.e. INformative Spatial-TemporAl Reasoning for zero-shot long-form video understanding.VideoINSTA contributes (1) a zero-shot framework for long video understanding using LLMs; (2) an event-based temporalreasoning and content-based spatial reasoning approach for LLMs to reason over spatial-temporal information in videos; (3) a self-reflective information reasoning scheme based on information sufficiency and prediction confidence while balancing temporal factors.Our model significantly improves the state-of-the-art on three long video question-answering benchmarks: EgoSchema, NextQA, and IntentQA, and the open question answering dataset ActivityNetQA. Code is released: https://github.com/mayhugotong/VideoINSTA."}
{"Title": "Self-Constructed Context Decompilation with Fined-grained Alignment Enhancement", "Abstract": "Decompilation transforms compiled code back into a high-level programming language for analysis when source code is unavailable. Previous work has primarily focused on enhancing decompilation performance by increasing the scale of model parameters or training data for pre-training. Based on the characteristics of the decompilation task, we propose two methods: (1) Without fine-tuning, the Self-Constructed Context Decompilation (sc$^2$dec) method recompiles the LLM{'}s decompilation results to construct pairs for in-context learning, helping the model improve decompilation performance. (2) Fine-grained Alignment Enhancement (FAE), which meticulously aligns assembly code with source code at the statement level by leveraging debugging information, is employed during the fine-tuning phase to achieve further improvements in decompilation. By integrating these two methods, we achieved a Re-Executability performance improvement of approximately 3.90{\\%} on the Decompile-Eval benchmark, establishing a new state-of-the-art performance of 52.41{\\%}. The code, data, and models are available at https://github.com/AlongWY/sccdec."}
{"Title": "Efficiently Computing Susceptibility to Context in Language Models", "Abstract": "One strength of modern language models is their ability to incorporate information from a user-input context when answering queries. However, they are not equally sensitive to the subtle changes to that context.To quantify this, Du et al. (2024) gives an information-theoretic metric to measure such sensitivity. Their metric, susceptibility, is defined as the degree to which contexts can influence a model{'}s response to a query at a distributional level.However, exactly computing susceptibility is difficult and, thus, Du et al. (2024) falls back on a Monte Carlo approximation.Due to the large number of samples required, the Monte Carlo approximation is inefficient in practice. As a faster alternative, we propose Fisher susceptibility, an efficient method to estimate the susceptibility based on Fisher information.Empirically, we validate that Fisher susceptibility is comparable to Monte Carlo estimated susceptibility across a diverse set of query domains despite its being $70\\times$ faster.Exploiting the improved efficiency, we apply Fisher susceptibility to analyze factors affecting the susceptibility of language models.We observe that larger models are as susceptible as smaller ones."}
{"Title": "ESG-Kor: A Korean Dataset for ESG-related Information Extraction and Practical Use Cases", "Abstract": "With the expansion of pre-trained language model usage in recent years, the importance of datasets for performing tasks in specialized domains has significantly increased. Therefore, we have built a Korean dataset called ESG-Kor to automatically extract Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) information, which has recently gained importance. ESG-Kor is a dataset consisting of a total of 118,946 sentences that extracted information on each ESG component from Korean companies{'} sustainability reports and manually labeled it according to objective rules provided by ESG evaluation agencies. To verify the effectiveness and applicability of the ESG-Kor dataset, classification performance was confirmed using several Korean pre-trained language models, and significant performance was obtained. Additionally, by extending the ESG classification model to documents of small and medium enterprises and extracting information based on ESG key issues and in-depth analysis, we demonstrated potential and practical use cases in the ESG field."}
{"Title": "Wrong-of-Thought: An Integrated Reasoning Framework with Multi-Perspective Verification and Wrong Information", "Abstract": "Chain-of-Thought (CoT) has become a vital technique for enhancing the performance of Large Language Models (LLMs), attracting increasing attention from researchers. One stream of approaches focuses on the iterative enhancement of LLMs by continuously verifying and refining their reasoning outputs for desired quality. Despite its impressive results, this paradigm faces two critical issues: (1) Simple verification methods: The current paradigm relies solely on a single verification method. (2) Wrong Information Ignorance: Traditional paradigms directly ignore wrong information during reasoning and refine the logic paths from scratch each time. To address these challenges, we propose Wrong-of-Thought (WoT), which includes two core modules: (1) Multi-Perspective Verification: A multi-perspective verification method for accurately refining the reasoning process and result, and (2) Wrong Information Utilization: Utilizing wrong information to alert LLMs and reduce the probability of LLMs making same mistakes. Experiments on 8 popular datasets and 5 LLMs demonstrate that WoT surpasses all previous baselines. In addition, WoT exhibits powerful capabilities in difficult computation tasks."}
{"Title": "Hope `The Paragraph Guy' explains the rest : Introducing MeSum, the Meme Summarizer", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Learning Semantic Structure through First-Order-Logic Translation", "Abstract": "In this paper, we study whether transformer-based language models can extract predicate argument structure from simple sentences. We firstly show that language models sometimes confuse which predicates apply to which objects. To mitigate this, we explore two tasks: question answering (Q/A), and first order logic (FOL) translation, and two regimes, prompting and finetuning. In FOL translation, we finetune several large language models on synthetic datasets designed to gauge their generalization abilities. For Q/A, we finetune encoder models like BERT and RoBERTa and use prompting for LLMs. The results show that FOL translation for LLMs is better suited to learn predicate argument structure."}
{"Title": "A Training Data Recipe to Accelerate A* Search with Language Models", "Abstract": "Combining Large Language Models (LLMs) with heuristic search algorithms like A* holds the promise of enhanced LLM reasoning and scalable inference. To accelerate training and reduce computational demands, we investigate the coreset selection problem for the training data of LLM heuristic learning. Few methods to learn the heuristic functions consider the interaction between the search algorithm and the machine learning model. In this work, we empirically disentangle the requirements of A* search algorithm from the requirements of the LLM to generalise on this task. Surprisingly, we find an overlap between their requirements; A* requires more accurate predictions on search nodes near the goal, and LLMs need the same set of nodes for effective generalisation. With these insights, we derive a data-selection distribution for learning LM-based heuristics. On three classical planning domains, maze navigation, Sokoban and sliding tile puzzles, our technique reduces the number of iterations required to find the solutions by up to 15x, with a wall-clock speed-up of search up to 5x. The code has been made available at https://github.com/devaansh100/a{\\_}star."}
{"Title": "From Generation to Selection: Findings of Converting Analogical Problem-Solving into Multiple-Choice Questions", "Abstract": "As artificial intelligence reasoning abilities gain prominence, generating reliable benchmarks becomes crucial. The Abstract and Reasoning Corpus (ARC) offers challenging problems yet unsolved by AI. While ARC effectively assesses reasoning, its generation-based evaluation overlooks other assessment aspects. Bloom{'}s Taxonomy suggests evaluating six cognitive stages: Remember, Understand, Apply, Analyze, Evaluate, and Create. To extend ARC{'}s focus beyond the \\textit{Create} stage, we developed MC-LARC, a multiple-choice format suitable for assessing stages like Understand and Apply in Large Language Models (LLMs). Our evaluation of ChatGPT4V{'}s analogical reasoning using MC-LARC confirmed that this format supports LLMs{'} reasoning capabilities and facilitates evidence analysis. However, we observed LLMs using shortcuts in MC-LARC tasks. To address this, we propose a self-feedback framework where LLMs identify issues and generate improved options. MC-LARC is available at https://mc-larc.github.io/."}
{"Title": "What's under the hood: Investigating Automatic Metrics on Meeting Summarization", "Abstract": "Meeting summarization has become a critical task considering the increase in online interactions. Despite new techniques being proposed regularly, the evaluation of meeting summarization techniques relies on metrics not tailored to capture meeting-specific errors, leading to ineffective assessment. This paper explores what established automatic metrics capture and the errors they mask by correlating metric scores with human evaluations across a comprehensive error taxonomy. We start by reviewing the literature on English meeting summarization to identify key challenges, such as speaker dynamics and contextual turn-taking, and error types, including missing information and linguistic inaccuracy, concepts previously loosely defined in the field. We then examine the relationship between these challenges and errors using human annotated transcripts and summaries from encoder-decoder-based and autoregressive Transformer models on the QMSum dataset. Experiments reveal that different model architectures respond variably to the challenges, resulting in distinct links between challenges and errors. Current established metrics struggle to capture the observable errors, showing weak to moderate correlations, with a third of the correlations indicating error masking. Only a subset of metrics accurately reacts to specific errors, while most correlations show either unresponsiveness or failure to reflect the error{'}s impact on summary quality."}
{"Title": "Self-Distillation for Model Stacking Unlocks Cross-Lingual NLU in 200+ Languages", "Abstract": "LLMs have become a go-to solution not just for text generation, but also for natural language understanding (NLU) tasks. Acquiring extensive knowledge through language modeling on web-scale corpora, they excel on English NLU, yet struggle to extend their NLU capabilities to underrepresented languages. In contrast, machine translation models (MT) produce excellent multilingual representations, resulting in strong translation performance even for low-resource languages. MT encoders, however, lack the knowledge necessary for comprehensive NLU that LLMs obtain through language modeling training on immense corpora. In this work, we get the best both worlds by integrating MT encoders directly into LLM backbones via sample-efficient self-distillation. The resulting MT-LLMs preserve the inherent multilingual representational alignment from the MT encoder, allowing lower-resource languages to tap into the rich knowledge embedded in English-centric LLMs. Merging the MT encoder and LLM in a single model, we mitigate the propagation of translation errors and inference overhead of MT decoding inherent to discrete translation-based cross-lingual transfer (e.g., translate-test). Evaluation spanning three prominent NLU tasks and 127 predominantly low-resource languages renders MT-LLMs highly effective in cross-lingual transfer. MT-LLMs substantially and consistently outperform translation-test based on the same MT model, showing that we truly unlock multilingual language understanding for LLMs."}
{"Title": "CERD: A Comprehensive Chinese Rhetoric Dataset for Rhetorical Understanding and Generation in Essays", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "An Empirical Study on Cross-lingual Vocabulary Adaptation for Efficient Language Model Inference", "Abstract": "The development of state-of-the-art generative large language models (LLMs) disproportionately relies on English-centric tokenizers, vocabulary and pre-training data. Despite the fact that some LLMs have multilingual capabilities, recent studies have shown that their inference efficiency deteriorates when generating text in languages other than English. This results in increased inference time and costs. Cross-lingual vocabulary adaptation (CVA) methods have been proposed for adapting models to a target language aiming to improve downstream performance. However, the effectiveness of these methods on increasing inference efficiency of generative LLMs has yet to be explored. In this paper, we perform an empirical study of five CVA methods on four generative LLMs (including monolingual and multilingual models) across four typologically-diverse languages and four natural language understanding tasks. We find that CVA substantially contributes to LLM inference speedups of up to 271.5{\\%}. We also show that adapting LLMs that have been pre-trained on more balanced multilingual data results in downstream performance comparable to the original models."}
{"Title": "AutoDetect: Towards a Unified Framework for Automated Weakness Detection in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Although Large Language Models (LLMs) are becoming increasingly powerful, they still exhibit significant but subtle weaknesses, such as mistakes in instruction-following or coding tasks.As these unexpected errors could lead to severe consequences in practical deployments, it is crucial to investigate the limitations within LLMs systematically.Traditional benchmarking approaches cannot thoroughly pinpoint specific model deficiencies, while manual inspections are costly and not scalable. In this paper, we introduce a unified framework, AutoDetect, to automatically expose weaknesses in LLMs across various tasks. Inspired by the educational assessment process that measures students{'} learning outcomes, AutoDetect consists of three LLM-powered agents: Examiner, Questioner, and Assessor.The collaboration among these three agents is designed to realize comprehensive and in-depth weakness identification. Our framework demonstrates significant success in uncovering flaws, with an identification success rate exceeding 30{\\%} in prominent models such as ChatGPT and Claude.More importantly, these identified weaknesses can guide specific model improvements, proving more effective than untargeted data augmentation methods like Self-Instruct. Our approach has led to substantial enhancements in popular LLMs, including the Llama series and Mistral-7b, boosting their performance by over 10{\\%} across several benchmarks.Code and data are publicly available at https://github.com/thu-coai/AutoDetect."}
{"Title": "BAPO: Base-Anchored Preference Optimization for Overcoming Forgetting in Large Language Models Personalization", "Abstract": "While learning to align Large Language Models (LLMs) with human preferences has shown remarkable success, aligning these models to meet the diverse user preferences presents further challenges in preserving previous knowledge. This paper examines the impact of personalized preference optimization on LLMs, revealing that the extent of knowledge loss varies significantly with preference heterogeneity. Although previous approaches have utilized the KL constraint between the reference model and the policy model, we observe that they fail to maintain general knowledge and alignment when facing personalized preferences. To this end, we introduce Base-Anchored Preference Optimization (BAPO), a simple yet effective approach that utilizes the initial responses of reference model to mitigate forgetting while accommodating personalized alignment. BAPO effectively adapts to diverse user preferences while minimally affecting global knowledge or general alignment. Our experiments demonstrate the efficacy of BAPO in various setups."}
{"Title": "Beyond Common Words: Enhancing ASR Cross-Lingual Proper Noun Recognition Using Large Language Models", "Abstract": "In this work, we address the challenge of cross-lingual proper noun recognition in automatic speech recognition (ASR), where proper nouns in an utterance may originate from a language different from the language in which the ASR system is trained. We enhance the performance of end-to-end ASR systems by instructing a large language model (LLM) to correct the ASR model{'}s predictions. The LLM{'}s context is augmented with a dictionary of cross-lingual words that are phonetically and graphemically similar to the potentially incorrect proper nouns in the ASR predictions. Our dictionary-based method DiP-ASR (Dictionary-based Prompting for Automatic Speech Recognition) significantly reduces word error rates compared to both the end-to-end ASR baseline and instruction-based prompting of the LLM without the dictionary across cross-lingual proper noun recognition tasks involving three secondary languages."}
{"Title": "Few-shot clinical entity recognition in English, French and Spanish: masked language models outperform generative model prompting", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have become the preferred solution for many natural language processing tasks. In low-resource environments such as specialized domains, their few-shot capabilities are expected to deliver high performance. Named Entity Recognition (NER) is a critical task in information extraction that is not covered in recent LLM benchmarks. There is a need for better understanding the performance of LLMs for NER in a variety of settings including languages other than English. This study aims to evaluate generative LLMs, employed through prompt engineering, for few-shot clinical NER. We compare 13 auto-regressive models using prompting and 16 masked models using fine-tuning on 14 NER datasets covering English, French and Spanish. While prompt-based auto-regressive models achieve competitive F1 for general NER, they are outperformed within the clinical domain by lighter biLSTM-CRF taggers based on masked models. Additionally, masked models exhibit lower environmental impact compared to auto-regressive models. Findings are consistent across the three languages studied, which suggests that LLM prompting is not yet suited for NER production in the clinical domain."}
{"Title": "STTATTS: Unified Speech-To-Text And Text-To-Speech Model", "Abstract": "Speech recognition and speech synthesis models are typically trained separately, each with its own set of learning objectives, training data, and model parameters, resulting in two distinct large networks. We propose a parameter-efficient approach to learning ASR and TTS jointly via a multi-task learning objective and shared parameters. Our evaluation demonstrates thatthe performance of our multi-task model is comparable to that of individually trained models while significantly savingcomputational and memory costs ({\\textasciitilde}50{\\%} reduction in the total number of parameters required for the two tasks combined). We experiment with English as a resource-rich language, and Arabic as a relatively low-resource language due to shortage of TTS data. Our models are trained with publicly available data, and both the training code and model checkpoints are openly available for further research."}
{"Title": "From Text Segmentation to Enhanced Representation Learning: A Novel Approach to Multi-Label Classification for Long Texts", "Abstract": "Multi-label text classification (MLTC) is an important task in the field of natural language processing. Most existing models rely on high-quality text representations provided by pre-trained language models (PLMs). They hence face the challenge of input length limitation caused by PLMs, when dealing with long texts. In light of this, we introduce a comprehensive approach to multi-label long text classification. We propose a text segmentation algorithm, which guarantees to produce the optimal segmentation, to address the issue of input length limitation caused by PLMs. We incorporate external knowledge, labels{'} co-occurrence relations, and attention mechanisms in representation learning to enhance both text and label representations. Our method{'}s effectiveness is validated through extensive experiments on various MLTC datasets, unraveling the intricate correlations between texts and labels."}
{"Title": "Learning from Imperfect Data: Towards Efficient Knowledge Distillation of Autoregressive Language Models for Text-to-SQL", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown promising performance in text-to-SQL, which involves translating natural language questions into SQL queries. However, current text-to-SQL LLMs are computationally expensive and challenging to deploy in real-world applications, highlighting the importance of compressing them. To achieve this goal, knowledge distillation (KD) is a common approach, which aims to distill the larger teacher model into a smaller student model. While numerous KD methods for autoregressive LLMs have emerged recently, it is still under-explored whether they work well in complex text-to-SQL scenarios. To this end, we conduct a series of analyses and reveal that these KD methods generally fall short in balancing performance and efficiency. In response to this problem, we propose to improve the KD with imperfect data, namely KID, which effectively boosts the performance without introducing much training budget. The core of KID is to efficiently mitigate the training-inference mismatch by simulating the cascading effect of inference in the imperfect training data. Extensive experiments on 5 text-to-SQL benchmarks show that, KID can not only achieve consistent and significant performance gains (up to +5.83{\\%} average score) across all model types and sizes, but also effectively improve the training efficiency."}
{"Title": "ConU: Conformal Uncertainty in Large Language Models with Correctness Coverage Guarantees", "Abstract": "Uncertainty quantification (UQ) in natural language generation (NLG) tasks remains an open challenge, exacerbated by the closed-source nature of the latest large language models (LLMs). This study investigates applying conformal prediction (CP), which can transform any heuristic uncertainty notion into rigorous prediction sets, to black-box LLMs in open-ended NLG tasks. We introduce a novel uncertainty measure based on self-consistency theory, and then develop a conformal uncertainty criterion by integrating the uncertainty condition aligned with correctness into the CP algorithm. Empirical evaluations indicate that our uncertainty measure outperforms prior state-of-the-art methods. Furthermore, we achieve strict control over the correctness coverage rate utilizing 7 popular LLMs on 4 free-form NLG datasets, spanning general-purpose and medical scenarios. Additionally, the calibrated prediction sets with small size further highlights the efficiency of our method in providing trustworthy guarantees for practical open-ended NLG applications."}
{"Title": "Irrelevant Alternatives Bias Large Language Model Hiring Decisions", "Abstract": "We investigate whether LLMs display a well-known human cognitive bias, the attraction effect, in hiring decisions. The attraction effect occurs when the presence of an inferior candidate makes a superior candidate more appealing, increasing the likelihood of the superior candidate being chosen over a non-dominated competitor. Our study finds consistent and significant evidence of the attraction effect in GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 when they assume the role of a recruiter. Irrelevant attributes of the decoy, such as its gender, further amplify the observed bias. GPT-4 exhibits greater bias variation than GPT-3.5. Our findings remain robust even when warnings against the decoy effect are included and the recruiter role definition is varied."}
{"Title": "PclGPT: A Large Language Model for Patronizing and Condescending Language Detection", "Abstract": "Disclaimer: Samples in this paper may be harmful and cause discomfort! Patronizing and condescending language (PCL) is a form of speech directed at vulnerable groups. As an essential branch of toxic language, this type of language exacerbates conflicts and confrontations among Internet communities and detrimentally impacts disadvantaged groups. Traditional pre-trained language models (PLMs) perform poorly in detecting PCL due to its implicit toxicity traits like hypocrisy and false sympathy. With the rise of large language models (LLMs), we can harness their rich emotional semantics to establish a paradigm for exploring implicit toxicity. In this paper, we introduce PclGPT, a comprehensive LLM benchmark designed specifically for PCL. We collect, annotate, and integrate the Pcl-PT/SFT dataset, and then develop a bilingual PclGPT-EN/CN model group through a comprehensive pre-training and supervised fine-tuning staircase process to facilitate implicit toxic detection. Group detection results and fine-grained detection from PclGPT and other models reveal significant variations in the degree of bias in PCL towards different vulnerable groups, necessitating increased societal attention to protect them."}
{"Title": "MultiAgent Collaboration Attack: Investigating Adversarial Attacks in Large Language Model Collaborations via Debate", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown exceptional results on current benchmarks when working individually. The advancement in their capabilities, along with a reduction in parameter size and inference times, has facilitated the use of these models as agents, enabling interactions among multiple models to execute complex tasks. Such collaborations offer several advantages, including the use of specialized models (e.g. coding), improved confidence through multiple computations, and enhanced divergent thinking, leading to more diverse outputs. Thus, the collaborative use of language models is expected to grow significantly in the coming years. In this work, we evaluate the behavior of a network of models collaborating through debate under the influence of an adversary. We introduce pertinent metrics to assess the adversary{'}s effectiveness, focusing on system accuracy and model agreement. Our findings highlight the importance of a model{'}s persuasive ability in influencing others. Additionally, we explore inference-time methods to generate more compelling arguments and evaluate the potential of prompt-based mitigation as a defensive strategy."}
{"Title": "CEAMC: Corpus and Empirical Study of Argument Analysis in Education via LLMs", "Abstract": "This paper introduces the Chinese Essay Argument Mining Corpus (CEAMC), a manually annotated dataset designed for argument component classification on multiple levels of granularity. Existing argument component types in education remain simplistic and isolated, failing to encapsulate the complete argument information. Originating from authentic examination settings, CEAMC categorizes argument components into 4 coarse-grained and 10 fine-grained delineations, surpassing previous simple representations to capture the subtle nuances of argumentation in the real world, thus meeting the needs of complex and diverse argumentative scenarios. Our contributions include the development of CEAMC, the establishment of baselines for further research, and a thorough exploration of the performance of Large Language Models (LLMs) on CEAMC. The results indicate that our CEAMC can serve as a challenging benchmark for the development of argument analysis in education."}
{"Title": "Ada-Instruct: Adapting Instruction Generators for Complex Reasoning", "Abstract": "Instructions augmentation is a crucial step for unleashing the full potential of large language models (LLMs) in downstream tasks. Existing Self-Instruct methods primarily simulate new instructions from a few initial instructions with in-context learning. However, our study identifies a critical flaw in this approach: even with GPT4o, it cannot generate complex instructions of length $\\ge 100$, which is necessary in complex tasks such as code completion.To address this issue, our key insight is that fine-tuning open source LLMs with only \\textit{ten examples} can produce complex instructions that maintain distributional consistency for complex reasoning tasks. We introduce Ada-Instruct, an adaptive instruction generator developed through fine-tuning. We empirically validated Ada-Instruct{'}s efficacy across different applications. The results highlight Ada-Instruct{'}s capacity to generate long, intricate, and distributionally consistent instructions."}
{"Title": "LINKAGE: Listwise Ranking among Varied-Quality References for Non-Factoid QA Evaluation via LLMs", "Abstract": "Non-Factoid (NF) Question Answering (QA) is challenging to evaluate due to diverse potential answers and no objective criterion. The commonly used automatic evaluation metrics like ROUGE or BERTScore cannot accurately measure semantic similarities or answers from different perspectives. Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) have been resorted to for NFQA evaluation due to their compelling performance on various NLP tasks. Common approaches include pointwise scoring of each candidate answer and pairwise comparisons between answers. Inspired by the evolution from pointwise to pairwise to listwise in learning-to-rank methods, we propose a novel listwise NFQA evaluation approach, that utilizes LLMs to rank candidate answers in a list of reference answers sorted by descending quality. Moreover, for NF questions that do not have multi-grade or any golden answers, we leverage LLMs to generate the reference answer list of various quality to facilitate the listwise evaluation. Extensive experimental results on three NFQA datasets, i.e., ANTIQUE, the TREC-DL-NF, and WebGLM show that our method has significantly higher correlations with human annotations compared to automatic scores and common pointwise and pairwise approaches."}
{"Title": "Breaking Language Barriers in Multilingual Mathematical Reasoning: Insights and Observations", "Abstract": "Existing research predominantly focuses on developing powerful large language models (LLMs) for mathematical reasoning within monolingual languages, with few explorations in preserving efficacy in a multilingual context. To bridge this gap, this paper pioneers exploring and training powerful Multilingual Math Reasoning (xMR) LLMs. Firstly, by utilizing translation, we construct the first multilingual math reasoning instruction dataset, **MGSM8KInstruct**, encompassing ten distinct languages, thus addressing the issue of training data scarcity in xMR tasks. Based on the collected dataset, we propose different training strategies to build powerful xMR LLMs, named MathOctopus, notably outperform conventional open-source LLMs and exhibit superiority over ChatGPT in few-shot scenarios. Notably, MathOctopus-13B reaches 47.6{\\%} accuracy which exceeds ChatGPT 46.3{\\%} on MGSM testset. Beyond remarkable results, we unearth several pivotal observations and insights: (1) When extending the rejection sampling strategy to the multilingual context, it proves effective for model performances, albeit limited. (2) Employing parallel corpora for math Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) across multiple languages not only significantly enhances model performance multilingually but also elevates their monolingual performance. This indicates that crafting multilingual corpora can be regarded as a vital strategy for enhancing model performance in a specific language, especially in mathematical reasoning tasks. For instance, MathOctopus-7B improves its counterparts that trained on English from 42.4{\\%} to 50.8{\\%} on the GSM8K test set."}
{"Title": "SynthEval: Hybrid Behavioral Testing of NLP Models with Synthetic Evaluation", "Abstract": "Traditional benchmarking in NLP typically involves using static, held-out test sets and calculating aggregated statistics based on diverse examples. However, this approach often results in an overestimation of performance and lacks the ability to offer comprehensive, interpretable, and dynamic assessments of NLP models. Recently, works like DynaBench and Checklist have addressed these limitations through behavioral testing of NLP models with test types generated by a multi-step human-annotated pipeline. Unfortunately, manually creating a variety of test types requires significant human labor, thus weakening efficiency. In this work, we propose SynthEval, a hybrid behavioral testing framework that leverages large language models (LLMs) to generate a wide range of test types for a comprehensive evaluation of NLP models. The SynthEval framework first generates sentences via LLMs using controlled generation, and then identifies challenging examples by comparing the predictions made by LLMs with task-specific NLP models. In the last stage, human experts investigate the challenging examples, manually design templates, and identify the types of failures the task-specific models consistently exhibit. We apply SynthEval to two classification tasks and show that our framework is effective in identifying weaknesses of strong models on these tasks."}
{"Title": "TurkishMMLU: Measuring Massive Multitask Language Understanding in Turkish", "Abstract": "Multiple choice question answering tasks evaluate the reasoning, comprehension, and mathematical abilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). While existing benchmarks employ automatic translation for multilingual evaluation, this approach is error-prone and potentially introduces culturally biased questions, especially in social sciences. We introduce the first multitask, multiple-choice Turkish QA benchmark, TurkishMMLU, to evaluate LLMs{'} understanding of the Turkish language. TurkishMMLU includes over 10,000 questions, covering 9 different subjects from Turkish high-school education curricula. These questions are written by curriculum experts, suitable for the high-school curricula in Turkey, covering subjects ranging from natural sciences and math questions to more culturally representative topics such as Turkish Literature and the history of the Turkish Republic. We evaluate over 20 LLMs, including multilingual open-source (e.g., Gemma, Llama, MT5), closed-source (GPT 4o, Claude, Gemini), and Turkish-adapted (e.g., Trendyol) models. We provide an extensive evaluation, including zero-shot and few-shot evaluation of LLMs, chain-of-thought reasoning, and question difficulty analysis along with model performance. We provide an in-depth analysis of the Turkish capabilities and limitations of current LLMs to provide insights for future LLMs for the Turkish language. We publicly release our code for the dataset and evaluation: https://github.com/ArdaYueksel/TurkishMMLU"}
{"Title": "LongForm: Effective Instruction Tuning with Reverse Instructions", "Abstract": "Instruction tuning enables language models to more effectively generalize and better follow user intent. However, obtaining instruction data is costly and challenging. Prior work employs methods such as expensive human annotation, crowd-sourced datasets with alignment issues, and generating noisy examples via LLMs. We introduce the LongForm-C dataset, which is created by reverse instructions. We generate instructions via LLMs for human-written corpus examples using reverse instructions. First we select a diverse set of human-written documents from corpora such as C4 and Wikipedia; then we generate instructions for these documents via LLMs. This approach provides a cheaper and cleaner instruction-tuning dataset with natural output and one suitable for long text generation. Our models outperform 10x larger language models without instruction tuning on tasks such as story/recipe generation and long-form question answering. Moreover, LongForm models outperform prior instruction-tuned models such as FLAN-T5 and Alpaca by a large margin, and improve language understanding capabilities further. We publicly release our data and models: [Anonymized-URL]."}
{"Title": "Explaining Graph Neural Networks with Large Language Models: A Counterfactual Perspective on Molecule Graphs", "Abstract": "In recent years, Graph Neural Networks (GNNs) have become successful in molecular property prediction tasks such as toxicity analysis. However, due to the black-box nature of GNNs, their outputs can be concerning in high-stakes decision-making scenarios, e.g., drug discovery. Facing such an issue, Graph Counterfactual Explanation (GCE) has emerged as a promising approach to improve GNN transparency. However, current GCE methods usually fail to take domain-specific knowledge into consideration, which can result in outputs that are not easily comprehensible by humans. To address this challenge, we propose a novel GCE method, LLM-GCE, to unleash the power of large language models (LLMs) in explaining GNNs for molecular property prediction. Specifically, we utilize an autoencoder to generate the counterfactual graph topology from a set of counterfactual text pairs (CTPs) based on an input graph. Meanwhile, we also incorporate a CTP dynamic feedback module to mitigate LLM hallucination, which provides intermediate feedback derived from the generated counterfactuals as an attempt to give more faithful guidance. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superior performance of LLM-GCE. Our code is released on https://github.com/YinhanHe123/new{\\_}LLM4GNNExplanation."}
{"Title": "Knowledge Mechanisms in Large Language Models: A Survey and Perspective", "Abstract": "Understanding knowledge mechanisms in Large Language Models (LLMs) is crucial for advancing towards trustworthy AGI. This paper reviews knowledge mechanism analysis from a novel taxonomy including knowledge utilization and evolution. Knowledge utilization delves into the mechanism of memorization, comprehension and application, and creation. Knowledge evolution focuses on the dynamic progression of knowledge within individual and group LLMs. Moreover, we discuss what knowledge LLMs have learned, the reasons for the fragility of parametric knowledge, and the potential dark knowledge (hypothesis) that will be challenging to address. We hope this work can help understand knowledge in LLMs and provide insights for future research."}
{"Title": "LongHeads: Multi-Head Attention is Secretly a Long Context Processor", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have achieved impressive performance in numerous domains but often struggle to process lengthy inputs effectively and efficiently due to limited length generalization and attention{'}s quadratic computational demands. Many sought to mitigate this by restricting the attention window within the pre-trained length. However, these methods introduce new issues such as ignoring the middle context and requiring additional training. To address these problems, we propose LongHeads, a training-free framework that enhances LLM{'}s long context ability by unlocking multi-head attention{'}s untapped potential. Instead of allowing each head to attend to the full sentence, which struggles with generalizing to longer sequences due to out-of-distribution (OOD) issues, we allow each head to process in-distribution length by selecting and attending to important context chunks. To this end, we propose a chunk selection strategy that relies on the inherent correlation between the query and the key representations, efficiently distributing context chunks to different heads. In this way, each head ensures it can effectively process attended tokens within the trained length, while different heads in different layers can collectively process longer contexts. LongHeads works efficiently and fits seamlessly with many LLMs that use relative positional encoding. LongHeads achieves 100{\\%} accuracy at the 128k length on passkey retrieval task, verifying LongHeads{'} efficacy in extending the usable context window for existing models."}
{"Title": "Crisis counselor language and perceived genuine concern in crisis conversations", "Abstract": "Although clients{'} perceptions of therapist empathy are known to correlate with therapy effectiveness, the specific ways that the therapist{'}s language use contributes to perceived empathy remain less understood. Natural Language Processing techniques, such as transformer models, permit the quantitative, automated, and scalable analysis of therapists{'} verbal behaviors. Here, we present a novel approach to extract linguistic features from text-based crisis intervention transcripts to analyze associations between specific crisis counselor verbal behaviors and perceived genuine concern. Linguistic features associated with higher perceived genuine concern included positive emotional language and affirmations; features associated with lower perceived genuine concern included self-oriented talk and overuse of templates. These findings provide preliminary evidence toward pathways for automating real-time feedback to crisis counselors about clients{'} perception of the therapeutic relationship."}
{"Title": "Edit-Constrained Decoding for Sentence Simplification", "Abstract": "We propose edit operation based lexically constrained decoding for sentence simplification. In sentence simplification, lexical paraphrasing is one of the primary procedures for rewriting complex sentences into simpler correspondences. While previous studies have confirmed the efficacy of lexically constrained decoding on this task, their constraints can be loose and may lead to sub-optimal generation. We address this problem by designing constraints that replicate the edit operations conducted in simplification and defining stricter satisfaction conditions. Our experiments indicate that the proposed method consistently outperforms the previous studies on three English simplification corpora commonly used in this task."}
{"Title": "Modeling Human Subjectivity in LLMs Using Explicit and Implicit Human Factors in Personas", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly being used in human-centered social scientific tasks, such as data annotation, synthetic data creation, and engaging in dialog. However, these tasks are highly subjective and dependent on human factors, such as one{'}s environment, attitudes, beliefs, and lived experiences. Thus, it may be the case that employing LLMs (which do not have such human factors) in these tasks results in a lack of variation in data, failing to reflect the diversity of human experiences. In this paper, we examine the role of prompting LLMs with human-like personas and asking the models to answer as if they were a specific human. This is done explicitly, with exact demographics, political beliefs, and lived experiences, or implicitly via names prevalent in specific populations. The LLM personas are then evaluated via (1) subjective annotation task (e.g., detecting toxicity) and (2) a belief generation task, where both tasks are known to vary across human factors. We examine the impact of explicit vs. implicit personas and investigate which human factors LLMs recognize and respond to. Results show that explicit LLM personas show mixed results when reproducing known human biases, but generally fail to demonstrate implicit biases. We conclude that LLMs may capture the statistical patterns of how people speak, but are generally unable to model the complex interactions and subtleties of human perceptions, potentially limiting their effectiveness in social science applications."}
{"Title": "Multi-Loss Fusion: Angular and Contrastive Integration for Machine-Generated Text Detection", "Abstract": "Modern natural language generation (NLG) systems have led to the development of synthetic human-like open-ended texts, posing concerns as to who the original author of a text is. To address such concerns, we introduce DeB-Ang: the utilisation of a custom DeBERTa model with angular loss and contrastive loss functions for effective class separation in neural text classification tasks. We expand the application of this model on binary machine-generated text detection and multi-class neural authorship attribution. We demonstrate improved performance on many benchmark datasets whereby the accuracy for machine-generated text detection was increased by as much as 38.04{\\%} across all datasets."}
{"Title": "Intermediate Layer Distillation with the Reused Teacher Classifier: A Study on the Importance of the Classifier of Attention-based Models", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Enhancing Large Language Model Based Sequential Recommender Systems with Pseudo Labels Reconstruction", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are utilized in various studies, and they also demonstrate a potential to function independently as a recommendation model. Nevertheless, training sequences and text labels modifies LLMs{'} pre-trained weights, diminishing their inherent strength in constructing and comprehending natural language sentences. In this study, we propose a reconstruction-based LLM recommendation model (ReLRec) that harnesses the feature extraction capability of LLMs, while preserving LLMs{'} sentence generation abilities. We reconstruct the user and item pseudo-labels generated from user reviews, while training on sequential data, aiming to exploit the key features of both users and items. Experimental results demonstrate the efficacy of label reconstruction in sequential recommendation tasks."}
{"Title": "On the Generalization of Training-based ChatGPT Detection Methods", "Abstract": "Large language models, such as ChatGPT, achieve amazing performance on various language processing tasks. However, they can also be exploited for improper purposes such as plagiarism or misinformation dissemination. Thus, there is an urgent need to detect the texts generated by LLMs. One type of most studied methods trains classification models to distinguish LLM texts from human texts. However, existing studies demonstrate the trained models may suffer from distribution shifts (during test), i.e., they are ineffective to predict the generated texts from unseen language tasks or topics which are not collected during training. In this work, we focus on ChatGPT as a representative model, and we conduct a comprehensive investigation on these methods{'} generalization behaviors under distribution shift caused by a wide range of factors, including prompts, text lengths, topics, and language tasks. To achieve this goal, we first collect a new dataset with human and ChatGPT texts, and then we conduct extensive studies on the collected dataset. Our studies unveil insightful findings that provide guidance for future methodologies and data collection strategies for LLM detection."}
{"Title": "Private prediction for large-scale synthetic text generation", "Abstract": "We present an approach for generating differentially private synthetic text using large language models (LLMs), via private prediction. In the private prediction framework, we only require the output synthetic data to satisfy differential privacy guarantees. This is in contrast to approaches that train a generative model on potentially sensitive user-supplied source data and seek to ensure the model itself is safe to release.We prompt a pretrained LLM with source data, but ensure that next-token predictions are made with differential privacy guarantees. Previous work in this paradigm reported generating a small number of examples ($<$10) at reasonable privacy levels, an amount of data that is useful only for downstream in-context learning or prompting. In contrast, we make changes that allow us to generate thousands of high-quality synthetic data points, greatly expanding the set of potential applications. Our improvements come from an improved privacy analysis and a better private selection mechanism, which makes use of the equivalence between the softmax layer for sampling tokens in LLMs and the exponential mechanism. Furthermore, we introduce a novel use of public predictions via the sparse vector technique, in which we do not pay privacy costs for tokens that are predictable without sensitive data; we find this to be particularly effective for structured data."}
{"Title": "Generalists vs. Specialists: Evaluating Large Language Models for Urdu", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Improving Multi-Agent Debate with Sparse Communication Topology", "Abstract": "Multi-agent debate has proven effective in improving large language models quality for reasoning and factuality tasks. While various role-playing strategies in multi-agent debates have been explored, in terms of the communication among agents, existing approaches adopt a brute force algorithm {--} each agent can communicate with all other agents. In this paper, we systematically investigate the effect of communication connectivity in multi-agent systems. Our experiments on GPT and Mistral models reveal that multi-agent debates leveraging sparse communication topology can achieve comparable or superior performance while significantly reducing computational costs. Furthermore, we extend the multi-agent debate framework to multi-modal reasoning and alignment labeling tasks, showcasing its broad applicability and effectiveness. Our findings underscore the importance of communication connectivity on enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of the {``}society of minds{''} approach."}
{"Title": "Evidence Retrieval for Fact Verification using Multi-stage Reranking", "Abstract": "In the fact verification domain, the accuracy and efficiency of evidence retrieval are paramount. This paper presents a novel approach to enhance the fact verification process through a Multi-stage ReRanking (M-ReRank) paradigm, which addresses the inherent limitations of single-stage evidence extraction. Our methodology leverages the strengths of advanced reranking techniques, including dense retrieval models and list-aware rerankers, to optimise the retrieval and ranking of evidence of both structured and unstructured types. We demonstrate that our approach significantly outperforms previous state-of-the-art models, achieving a recall rate of 93.63{\\%} for Wikipedia pages. The proposed system not only improves the retrieval of relevant sentences and table cells but also enhances the overall verification accuracy. Through extensive experimentation on the FEVEROUS dataset, we show that our M-ReRank pipeline achieves substantial improvements in evidence extraction, particularly increasing the recall of sentences by 7.85{\\%}, tables by 8.29{\\%} and cells by 3{\\%} compared to the current state-of-the-art on the development set."}
{"Title": "Multi-step Problem Solving Through a Verifier: An Empirical Analysis on Model-induced Process Supervision", "Abstract": "Process supervision, using a trained verifier to evaluate the intermediate steps generated by a reasoner, has demonstrated significant improvements in multi-step problem solving. In this paper, to avoid the expensive effort of human annotation on the verifier training data, we introduce Model-induced Process Supervision (MiPS), a novel method for automating data curation. MiPS annotates an intermediate step by sampling completions of this solution through the reasoning model, and obtaining an accuracy defined as the proportion of correct completions. Inaccuracies of the reasoner would cause MiPS underestimating the accuracy of intermediate steps, therefore, we suggest and empirically show that verification focusing on high predicted scores of the verifier shall be preferred over that of low predicted scores, contrary to prior observations on human curated data. Our approach significantly improves the performance of PaLM 2 on math and coding tasks (accuracy +0.67{\\%} on GSM8K, +4.16{\\%} on MATH, +0.92{\\%} on MBPP compared with an output supervision trained verifier). Additionally, our study demonstrates that the verifier exhibits strong generalization ability across different reasoning models."}
{"Title": "MUSCLE: A Model Update Strategy for Compatible LLM Evolution", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) are regularly updated to enhance performance, typically through changes in data or architecture. Within the update process, developers often prioritize improving overall performance metrics, paying less attention to maintaining compatibility with earlier model versions. Instance-level degradation (instance regression) of performance from one model version to the next can interfere with a user{'}s mental model of the capabilities of a particular language model. Users having to adapt their mental model with every update can lead to dissatisfaction, especially when the new model has degraded compared to a prior version for a known use case (model update regression).We find that when pretrained LLM base models are updated, fine-tuned user-facing downstream task adapters experience negative flips {--} previously correct instances are now predicted incorrectly. We observe model update regression between different model versions on a diverse set of tasks and models, even when the downstream task training procedures remain identical. We argue for the importance of maintaining model update compatibility during updates, and present evaluation metrics designed specifically for generative tasks, while also being applicable to discriminative tasks. We propose a training strategy to minimize the extent of instance regression in model updates, involving training of a compatibility adapter that can enhance task fine-tuned language models. We show negative flips reduce by up to 40{\\%} e.g. when updating Llama 1 to Llama 2 with our proposed method."}
{"Title": "Event-Keyed Summarization", "Abstract": "We introduce *event-keyed summarization* (EKS), a novel task that marries traditional summarization and document-level event extraction, with the goal of generating a contextualized summary for a specific event, given a document and an extracted event structure. We introduce a dataset for this task, MUCSUM, consisting of summaries of all events in the classic MUC-4 dataset, along with a set of baselines that comprises both pretrained LM standards in the summarization literature, as well as larger frontier models. We show that ablations that reduce EKS to traditional summarization or structure-to-text yield inferior summaries of target events and that MUCSUM is a robust benchmark for this task. Lastly, we conduct a human evaluation of both reference and model summaries, and provide some detailed analysis of the results."}
{"Title": "The Effect of Sampling Temperature on Problem Solving in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "In this research study, we empirically investigate the effect of sampling temperature on the performance of Large Language Models (LLMs) on various problem-solving tasks. We created a multiple-choice question-and-answer (MCQA) exam by randomly sampling problems from standard LLM benchmarks. Then, we used nine popular LLMs with five prompt-engineering techniques to solve the MCQA problems while increasing the sampling temperature from 0.0 to 1.6. Despite anecdotal reports to the contrary, our empirical results indicate that changes in temperature from 0.0 to 1.0 do not have a statistically significant impact on LLM performance for problem-solving tasks. In addition, these results appear to generalize across LLMs, prompt-engineering techniques, and problem domains. All code, data, and supplemental materials are available on GitHub at: https://github.com/matthewrenze/jhu-llm-temperature"}
{"Title": "HiCuLR: Hierarchical Curriculum Learning for Rhetorical Role Labeling of Legal Documents", "Abstract": "Rhetorical Role Labeling (RRL) of legal documents is pivotal for various downstream tasks such as summarization, semantic case search and argument mining. Existing approaches often overlook the varying difficulty levels inherent in legal document discourse styles and rhetorical roles. In this work, we propose HiCuLR, a hierarchical curriculum learning framework for RRL. It nests two curricula: Rhetorical Role-level Curriculum (RC) on the outer layer and Document-level Curriculum (DC) on the inner layer. DC categorizes documents based on their difficulty, utilizing metrics like deviation from a standard discourse structure and exposes the model to them in an easy-to-difficult fashion. RC progressively strengthens the model to discern coarse-to-fine-grained distinctions between rhetorical roles. Our experiments on four RRL datasets demonstrate the efficacy of HiCuLR, highlighting the complementary nature of DC and RC."}
{"Title": "Semi-Supervised Reward Modeling via Iterative Self-Training", "Abstract": "Reward models (RM) capture the values and preferences of humans and play a central role in Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) to align pretrained large language models (LLMs). Traditionally, training these models relies on extensive human-annotated preference data, which poses significant challenges in terms of scalability and cost. To overcome these limitations, we propose Semi-Supervised Reward Modeling (SSRM), an approach that enhances RM training using unlabeled data. Given an unlabeled dataset, SSRM involves three key iterative steps: pseudo-labeling unlabeled examples, selecting high-confidence examples through a confidence threshold, and supervised finetuning on the refined dataset. Across extensive experiments on various model configurations, we demonstrate that SSRM significantly improves reward models without incurring additional labeling costs. Notably, SSRM can achieve performance comparable to models trained entirely on labeled data of equivalent volumes. Overall, SSRM substantially reduces the dependency on large volumes of human-annotated data, thereby decreasing the overall cost and time involved in training effective reward models."}
{"Title": "Demonstration Selection Strategies for Numerical Time Series Data-to-Text", "Abstract": "Demonstration selection, the process of selecting examples used in prompts, plays a critical role in in-context learning. This paper explores demonstration selection methods for data-to-text tasks that involve numerical time series data as inputs.Previously developed demonstration selection methods primarily focus on textual inputs, often relying on embedding similarities of textual tokens to select similar instances from an example bank. However, this approach may not be suitable for numerical time series data.To address this issue, we propose two novel selection methods: (1) sequence similarity-based selection using various similarity measures, and (2) task-specific knowledge-based selection.From our experiments on two benchmark datasets, we found that our proposed models significantly outperform baseline selections and often surpass fine-tuned models. We also found that scale-invariant similarity measures such as Pearson{'}s correlation work better than scale-variant measures such as Euclidean distance.Manual evaluation by human judges also confirms that our proposed methods outperform conventional methods."}
{"Title": "ALIGN-SIM: A Task-Free Test Bed for Evaluating and Interpreting Sentence Embeddings through Semantic Similarity Alignment", "Abstract": "Sentence embeddings play a pivotal role in a wide range of NLP tasks, yet evaluating and interpreting these real-valued vectors remains an open challenge to date, especially in a task-free setting. To address this challenge, we introduce a novel task-free test bed for evaluating and interpreting sentence embeddings. Our test bed consists of five semantic similarity alignment criteria, namely, *semantic distinction, synonym replacement, antonym replacement, paraphrasing without negation, and sentence jumbling*. Using these criteria, we examined five classical (e.g., Sentence-BERT, Universal Sentence Encoder (USE), etc.) and eight LLM-induced sentence embedding techniques (e.g., LLaMA2, GPT-3, OLMo, etc.) to test whether their semantic similarity spaces align with what a human mind would naturally expect. Our extensive experiments with 13 different sentence encoders revealed that none of the studied embeddings aligned with all the five semantic similarity alignment criteria. Yet, most encoders performed highly on the SentEval dataset, a popular task-specific benchmark. This finding demonstrates a significant limitation of the current practice in sentence embedding evaluation and associated popular benchmarks, a critical issue that needs careful attention and reassessment by the NLP community. Finally, we conclude the paper by highlighting the utility of the proposed alignment-based test bed for analyzing sentence embeddings in a novel way, especially in a task-free setting."}
{"Title": "BIPEFT: Budget-Guided Iterative Search for Parameter Efficient Fine-Tuning of Large Pretrained Language Models", "Abstract": "Parameter Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) offers an efficient solution for fine-tuning large pretrained language models for downstream tasks. However, most PEFT strategies are manually designed, often resulting in suboptimal performance. Recent automatic PEFT approaches aim to address this but face challenges such as search space entanglement, inefficiency, and lack of integration between parameter budgets and search processes. To overcome these issues, we introduce a novel Budget-guided Iterative search strategy for automatic PEFT (BIPEFT), significantly enhancing search efficiency. BIPEFT employs a new iterative search strategy to disentangle the binary module and rank dimension search spaces. Additionally, we design early selection strategies based on parameter budgets, accelerating the learning process by gradually removing unimportant modules and fixing rank dimensions. Extensive experiments on public benchmarks demonstrate the superior performance of BIPEFT in achieving efficient and effective PEFT for downstream tasks with a low parameter budget."}
{"Title": "In-Context Learning with Iterative Demonstration Selection", "Abstract": "Spurred by advancements in scale, large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated strong few-shot learning ability via in-context learning (ICL). However, the performance of ICL has been shown to be highly sensitive to the selection of few-shot demonstrations. Selecting the most suitable examples as context remains an ongoing challenge and an open problem. Existing literature has highlighted the importance of selecting examples that are diverse or semantically similar to the test sample while ignoring the fact that the optimal selection dimension, i.e., diversity or similarity, is task-specific. Based on how the test sample is answered, we propose Iterative Demonstration Selection (IDS) to leverage the merits of both dimensions. Using zero-shot chain-of-thought reasoning (Zero-shot-CoT), IDS iteratively selects examples that are diverse but still strongly correlated with the test sample as ICL demonstrations. Specifically, IDS applies Zero-shot-CoT to the test sample before demonstration selection. The output reasoning path is then used to choose demonstrations that are prepended to the test sample for inference. The generated answer is followed by its corresponding reasoning path for extracting a new set of demonstrations in the next iteration. After several iterations, IDS adopts majority voting to obtain the final result. Through extensive experiments on tasks including reasoning, question answering, and topic classification, we demonstrate that IDS can consistently outperform existing ICL demonstration selection methods."}
{"Title": "On Evaluating Explanation Utility for Human-AI Decision Making in NLP", "Abstract": "Is explainability a false promise? This debate has emerged from the insufficient evidence that explanations help people in situations they are introduced for. More human-centered, application-grounded evaluations of explanations are needed to settle this. Yet, with no established guidelines for such studies in NLP, researchers accustomed to standardized proxy evaluations must discover appropriate measurements, tasks, datasets, and sensible models for human-AI teams in their studies. To aid with this, we first review existing metrics suitable for application-grounded evaluation. We then establish criteria to select appropriate datasets, and using them, we find that only 4 out of over 50 datasets available for explainability research in NLP meet them. We then demonstrate the importance of reassessing the state of the art to form and study human-AI teams: teaming people with models for certain tasks might only now start to make sense, and for others, it remains unsound. Finally, we present the exemplar studies of human-AI decision-making for one of the identified tasks {---} verifying the correctness of a legal claim given a contract. Our results show that providing AI predictions, with or without explanations, does not cause decision makers to speed up their work without compromising performance. We argue for revisiting the setup of human-AI teams and improving automatic deferral of instances to AI, where explanations could play a useful role."}
{"Title": "Unsupervised Hierarchical Topic Modeling via Anchor Word Clustering and Path Guidance", "Abstract": "Hierarchical topic models nowadays tend to capture the relationship between words and topics, often ignoring the role of anchor words that guide text generation. For the first time, we detect and add anchor words to the text generation process in an unsupervised way. Firstly, we adopt a clustering algorithm to adaptively detect anchor words that are highly consistent with every topic, which forms the path of topic $\\rightarrow$ anchor word. Secondly, we add the causal path of anchor word $\\rightarrow$ word to the popular Variational Auto-Encoder (VAE) framework via implicitly using word co-occurrence graphs. We develop the causal path of topic+anchor word $\\rightarrow$ higher-layer topic that aids the expression of topic concepts with anchor words to capture a more semantically tight hierarchical topic structure. Finally, we enhance the model{'}s representation of the anchor words through a novel contrastive learning. After jointly training the aforementioned constraint objectives, we can produce more coherent and diverse topics with a better hierarchical structure. Extensive experiments on three datasets show that our model outperforms state-of-the-art methods."}
{"Title": "GuardEmb: Dynamic Watermark for Safeguarding Large Language Model Embedding Service Against Model Stealing Attack", "Abstract": "Large language model (LLM) companies provide Embedding as a Service (EaaS) to assist the individual in efficiently dealing with downstream tasks such as text classification and recommendation. However, recent works reveal the risk of the model stealing attack, posing a financial threat to EaaS providers. To protect the copyright of EaaS, we propose GuardEmb, a dynamic embedding watermarking method, striking a balance between enhancing watermark detectability and preserving embedding functionality. Our approach involves selecting special tokens and perturbing embeddings containing these tokens to inject watermarks. Simultaneously, we train a verifier to detect these watermarks. In the event of an attacker attempting to replicate our EaaS for profit, their model inherits our watermarks. For watermark verification, we construct verification texts to query the suspicious EaaS, and the verifier identifies our watermarks within the responses, effectively tracing copyright infringement. Extensive experiments across diverse datasets showcase the high detectability of our watermark method, even in out-of-distribution scenarios, without compromising embedding functionality. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/Melodramass/Dynamic-Watermark."}
{"Title": "Difficult Task Yes but Simple Task No: Unveiling the Laziness in Multimodal LLMs", "Abstract": "Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) demonstrate a strong understanding of the real world and can even handle complex tasks. However, they still fail on some straightforward visual question-answering (VQA) problems. This paper dives deeper into this issue, revealing that models tend to err when answering easy questions (e.g., Yes/No questions) about an image, even though they can correctly describe it.We refer to this model behavior discrepancy between difficult and simple questions as model laziness.To systematically investigate model laziness, we manually construct LazyBench, a benchmark that includes Yes/No, multiple choice, short answer questions, and image description tasks that are related to the same subjects in the images.Based on LazyBench. we observe that laziness widely exists in current advanced MLLMs (e.g., GPT-4o, Gemini-1.5-pro, Claude 3, LLaVA-1.5, LLaVA-1.6, and QWen-VL). We also analyzed the failure cases of LLaVA-1.5-13B on the VQA-v2 benchmark and discovered that about half of these failures are due to the model{'}s laziness. This further highlights the importance of ensuring that the model fully utilizes its capability.To this end, we conduct a preliminary exploration of how to mitigate laziness and find that chain of thought can effectively avoid this issue. The data can be accessed at https://github.com/Akutagawa1998/LazyBench."}
{"Title": "Pseudo-Label Enhanced Prototypical Contrastive Learning for Uniformed Intent Discovery", "Abstract": "New intent discovery is a crucial capability for task-oriented dialogue systems. Existing methods focus on transferring in-domain (IND) prior knowledge to out-of-domain (OOD) data through pre-training and clustering stages. They either handle the two processes in a pipeline manner, which exhibits a gap between intent representation and clustering process or use typical contrastive clustering that overlooks the potential supervised signals from the whole data. Besides, they often deal with either open intent discovery or OOD settings individually. To this end, we propose a Pseudo-Label enhanced Prototypical Contrastive Learning (PLPCL) model for uniformed intent discovery. We iteratively utilize pseudo-labels to explore potential positive/negative samples for contrastive learning and bridge the gap between representation and clustering. To enable better knowledge transfer, we design a prototype learning method integrating the supervised and pseudo signals from IND and OOD samples. In addition, our method has been proven effective in two different settings of discovering new intents. Experiments on three benchmark datasets and two task settings demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach."}
{"Title": "RoLoRA: Fine-tuning Rotated Outlier-free LLMs for Effective Weight-Activation Quantization", "Abstract": "Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA), as a representative Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) method, significantly enhances the training efficiency by updating only a small portion of the weights in Large Language Models (LLMs). Recently, weight-only quantization techniques have also been applied to LoRA methods to reduce the memory footprint of fine-tuning. However, applying weight-activation quantization to the LoRA pipeline is under-explored, and we observe substantial performance degradation primarily due to the presence of activation outliers. In this work, we propose RoLoRA, the first LoRA-based scheme to apply rotation for outlier elimination, and then fine-tune rotated outlier-free LLMs for effective weight-activation quantization. Different from previous work tackling the outlier challenges from a post-training perspective, we propose rotation-aware fine-tuning to eliminate and preserve the outlier-free characteristics brought by rotation operations. RoLoRA can improve low-bit LoRA convergence and post-training quantization robustness in weight-activation settings. RoLoRA is evaluated across various LLM series (LLaMA2, LLaMA3, LLaVA-1.5), tasks, and quantization settings, achieving up to 29.5{\\%} absolute accuracy gain of 4-bit weight-activation quantized LLaMA2-13B on commonsense reasoning tasks compared to LoRA baseline. We further demonstrate its effectiveness on Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) and prove the compatibility with advanced LoRA variants."}
{"Title": "Can Large Language Models Grasp Legal Theories? Enhance Legal Reasoning with Insights from Multi-Agent Collaboration", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) could struggle to fully understand legal theories and perform complex legal reasoning tasks. In this study, we introduce a challenging task (confusing charge prediction) to better evaluate LLMs{'} understanding of legal theories and reasoning capabilities. We also propose a novel framework: Multi-Agent framework for improving complex Legal Reasoning capability (MALR). MALR employs non-parametric learning, encouraging LLMs to automatically decompose complex legal tasks and mimic human learning process to extract insights from legal rules, helping LLMs better understand legal theories and enhance their legal reasoning abilities. Extensive experiments on multiple real-world datasets demonstrate that the proposed framework effectively addresses complex reasoning issues in practical scenarios, paving the way for more reliable applications in the legal domain."}
{"Title": "Retrieval and Reasoning on KGs: Integrate Knowledge Graphs into Large Language Models for Complex Question Answering", "Abstract": "Despite Large Language Models (LLMs) have performed impressively in various Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks, their inherent hallucination phenomena severely challenge their credibility in complex reasoning. Combining explainable Knowledge Graphs (KGs) with LLMs is a promising path to address this issue. However, structured KGs are difficult to utilize, and how to make LLMs understand and incorporate them is a challenging topic. We thereby reorganize a more efficient structure of KGs, while designing the KG-related instruction tuning and continual pre-training strategies to enable LLMs to learn and internalize this form of representation effectively. Moreover, we construct subgraphs to further enhance the retrieval capabilities of KGs via CoT reasoning. Extensive experiments on two KGQA datasets demonstrate that our model achieves convincing performance compared to strong baselines."}
{"Title": "Insights into LLM Long-Context Failures: When Transformers Know but Don't Tell", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) exhibit positional bias, struggling to utilize information from the middle or end of long contexts. Our study explores LLMs{'} long-context reasoning by probing their hidden representations. We find that while LLMs encode the position of target information, they often fail to leverage this in generating accurate responses. This reveals a disconnect between information retrieval and utilization, a {``}know but don{'}t tell{''} phenomenon. We further analyze the relationship between extraction time and final accuracy, offering insights into the underlying mechanics of transformer models."}
{"Title": "E^2CL: Exploration-based Error Correction Learning for Embodied Agents", "Abstract": "Language models are exhibiting increasing capability in knowledge utilization and reasoning. However, when applied as agents in embodied environments, they often suffer from misalignment between their intrinsic knowledge and environmental knowledge, leading to infeasible actions. Traditional environment alignment methods, such as supervised learning on expert trajectories and reinforcement learning, encounter limitations in covering environmental knowledge and achieving efficient convergence, respectively. Inspired by human learning, we propose Exploration-based Error Correction Learning (E$^2$CL), a novel framework that leverages exploration-induced errors and environmental feedback to enhance environment alignment for embodied agents. E$^2$CL incorporates teacher-guided and teacher-free explorations to gather environmental feedback and correct erroneous actions. The agent learns to provide feedback and self-correct, thereby enhancing its adaptability to target environments. Extensive experiments in the VirtualHome environment demonstrate that E$^2$CL-trained agents outperform those trained by baseline methods and exhibit superior self-correction capabilities."}
{"Title": "BERGEN: A Benchmarking Library for Retrieval-Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Retrieval-Augmented Generation allows to enhance Large Language Models with external knowledge. In response to the recent popularity of generative LLMs, many RAG approaches have been proposed, which involve an intricate number of different configurations such as evaluation datasets, collections, metrics, retrievers, and LLMs. Inconsistent benchmarking poses a major challenge in comparing approaches and understanding the impact of each component in the pipeline. In this work, we study best practices that lay the groundwork for a systematic evaluation of RAG and present BERGEN, an end-to-end library for reproducible research standardizing RAG experiments. In an extensive study focusing on QA, we benchmark different state-of-the-art retrievers, rerankers, and LLMs. Additionally, we analyze existing RAG metrics and datasets."}
{"Title": "Contextualized Graph Representations for Generating Counter-Narratives against Hate Speech", "Abstract": "Hate speech (HS) is a widely acknowledged societal problem with potentially grave effects on vulnerable individuals and minority groups. Developing counter-narratives (CNs) that confront biases and stereotypes driving hateful narratives is considered an impactful strategy. Current automatic methods focus on isolated utterances to detect and react to hateful content online, often omitting the conversational context where HS naturally occurs. In this work, we explore strategies for the incorporation of conversational history for CN generation, comparing text and graphical representations with varying degrees of context. Overall, automatic and human evaluations show that 1) contextualized representations are comparable to those of isolated utterances, and 2) models based on graph representations outperform text representations, thus opening new research directions for future work."}
{"Title": "Modeling Historical Relevant and Local Frequency Context for Representation-Based Temporal Knowledge Graph Forecasting", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Representation Alignment and Adversarial Networks for Cross-lingual Dependency Parsing", "Abstract": "With the strong representational capabilities of pre-trained language models, dependency parsing in resource-rich languages has seen significant advancements. However, the parsing accuracy drops sharply when the model is transferred to low-resource language due to distribution shifts. To alleviate this issue, we propose a representation alignment and adversarial model to filter out useful knowledge from rich-resource language and ignore useless ones. Our proposed model consists of two components, i.e., an alignment network in the input layer for selecting useful language-specific features and an adversarial network in the encoder layer for augmenting the language-invariant contextualized features. Experiments on the benchmark datasets show that our proposed model outperforms RoBERTa-enhanced strong baseline models by 1.37 LAS and 1.34 UAS. Detailed analysis shows that both alignment and adversarial networks are equally important in alleviating the distribution shifts problem and can complement each other. In addition, the comparative experiments demonstrate that both the alignment and adversarial networks can substantially facilitate extracting and utilizing relevant target language features, thereby increasing the adaptation capability of our proposed model."}
{"Title": "An Instruction Tuning-Based Contrastive Learning Framework for Aspect Sentiment Quad Prediction with Implicit Aspects and Opinions", "Abstract": "Aspect sentiment quad prediction (ASQP) is crucial in aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA). It involves identifying a text{'}s aspect,sentiment, opinion, and category. Existing methods have insufficiently explored how to effectively leverage the knowledge of pre-trainedlanguage models (PLMs) to handle implicit aspects and opinions, particularly in combinations such as implicit aspect {\\&} explicit opinion, explicit aspect {\\&} implicit opinion, and implicit aspect {\\&} implicit opinion. We introduce ITSCL, a framework leveraging Instruction Tuning and Supervised Contrastive Learning to improve aspect sentiment quad predictions, especially for implicit aspects and opinions. Implementing this approach presents several challenges. First, designing effective instructions and prompts to optimize the model{'}s training is difficult. Second, creating sentiment combination vectors with contrastive learning to enhance the model{'}s discrimination requires further investigation. To address these challenges, ITSCL combines instruction tuning with aligned PLM templates, enabling better knowledge acquisition and identification of implicit sentiments. Additionally, the contrastive learning framework enhances performance by using four fully connected layers to combine sentiments, aspects, opinions, and combinations, maximizing similarity for same-label representationsand minimizing it for different labels. Experimental results show our method significantly outperforms previous methods on benchmark datasets."}
{"Title": "MACAROON: Training Vision-Language Models To Be Your Engaged Partners", "Abstract": "Large vision-language models (LVLMs), while proficient in following instructions and responding to diverse questions, invariably generate detailed responses even when questions are ambiguous or unanswerable, leading to hallucinations and bias issues. Thus, it is essential for LVLMs to proactively engage with humans to ask for clarifications or additional information for better responses. In this study, we aim to shift LVLMs from passive answer providers to proactive engaged partners. We begin by establishing a three-tiered hierarchy for questions of invalid, ambiguous, and personalizable nature to measure the proactive engagement capabilities of LVLMs. Utilizing this hierarchy, we create PIE, (ProactIve Engagement Evaluation) through GPT-4o and human annotators, consisting of 853 questions across six distinct, fine-grained question types that are verified by human annotators and accompanied with well-defined metrics. Our evaluations on indicate poor performance of existing LVLMs, with the best-performing open-weights model only achieving an Aggregate Align Rate (AAR) of 0.28. In response, we introduce MACAROON, self-iMaginAtion for ContrAstive pReference OptimizatiON, which instructs LVLMs to autonomously generate contrastive response pairs for unlabeled questions given the task description and human-crafted criteria. Then, the self-imagined data is formatted for conditional reinforcement learning. Experimental results show MACAROON effectively improves LVLMs{'} capabilities to be proactively engaged (0.84 AAR) while maintaining comparable performance on general tasks."}
{"Title": "ICL: Iterative Continual Learning for Multi-domain Neural Machine Translation", "Abstract": "In a practical scenario, multi-domain neural machine translation (MDNMT) aims to continuously acquire knowledge from new domain data while retaining old knowledge. Previous work separately learns each new domain knowledge based on parameter isolation methods, which effectively capture the new knowledge. However, task-specific parameters lead to isolation between models, which hinders the mutual transfer of knowledge between new domains. Given the scarcity of domain-specific corpora, we consider making full use of the data from multiple new domains. Therefore, our work aims to leverage previously acquired domain knowledge when modeling subsequent domains. To this end, we propose an Iterative Continual Learning (ICL) framework for multi-domain neural machine translation. Specifically, when each new domain arrives, (1) we first build a pluggable incremental learning model, (2) then we design an iterative updating algorithm to continuously update the original model, which can be used flexibly for constructing subsequent domain models. Furthermore, we design a domain knowledge transfer mechanism to enhance the fine-grained domain-specific representation, thereby solving the word ambiguity caused by mixing domain data. Experimental results on the UM-Corpus and OPUS multi-domain datasets show the superior performance of our proposed model compared to representative baselines."}
{"Title": "Mitigating Hallucinations of Large Language Models in Medical Information Extraction via Contrastive Decoding", "Abstract": "The impressive capabilities of large language models (LLMs) have attracted extensive interests of applying LLMs to medical field. However, the complex nature of clinical environments presents significant hallucination challenges for LLMs, hindering their widespread adoption. In this paper, we address these hallucination issues in the context of Medical Information Extraction (MIE) tasks by introducing ALternate Contrastive Decoding (ALCD). We begin by redefining MIE tasks as an identify-and-classify process. We then separate the identification and classification functions of LLMs by selectively masking the optimization of tokens during fine-tuning. During the inference stage, we alternately contrast output distributions derived from sub-task models. This approach aims to selectively enhance the identification and classification capabilities while minimizing the influence of other inherent abilities in LLMs. Additionally, we propose an alternate adaptive constraint strategy to more effectively adjust the scale and scope of contrastive tokens. Through comprehensive experiments on two different backbones and six diverse medical information extraction tasks, ALCD demonstrates significant improvements in resolving hallucination issues compared to conventional decoding methods."}
{"Title": "NeuroMax: Enhancing Neural Topic Modeling via Maximizing Mutual Information and Group Topic Regularization", "Abstract": "Recent advances in neural topic models have concentrated on two primary directions: the integration of the inference network (encoder) with a pre-trained language model (PLM) and the modeling of the relationship between words and topics in the generative model (decoder). However, the use of large PLMs significantly increases inference costs, making them less practical for situations requiring low inference times. Furthermore, it is crucial to simultaneously model the relationships between topics and words as well as the interrelationships among topics themselves. In this work, we propose a novel framework called NeuroMax (**Neur**al T**o**pic Model with **Max**imizing Mutual Information with Pretrained Language Model and Group Topic Regularization) to address these challenges. NeuroMax maximizes the mutual information between the topic representation obtained from the encoder in neural topic models and the representation derived from the PLM. Additionally, NeuroMax employs optimal transport to learn the relationships between topics by analyzing how information is transported among them. Experimental results indicate that NeuroMax reduces inference time, generates more coherent topics and topic groups, and produces more representative document embeddings, thereby enhancing performance on downstream tasks."}
{"Title": "LLM Self-Correction with DeCRIM: Decompose, Critique, and Refine for Enhanced Following of Instructions with Multiple Constraints", "Abstract": "Instruction following is a key capability for LLMs. However, recent studies have shown that LLMs often struggle with instructions containing multiple constraints (e.g. a request to create a social media post {``}in a funny tone{''} with {``}no hashtag{''}). Despite this, most evaluations focus solely on synthetic data. To address this, we introduce RealInstruct, the first benchmark designed to evaluate LLMs{'} ability to follow real-world multi-constrained instructions by leveraging queries real users asked AI assistants. We also investigate model-based evaluation as a cost-effective alternative to human annotation for this task. Our findings reveal that even the proprietary GPT-4 model fails to meet at least one constraint on over 21{\\%} of instructions, highlighting the limitations of state-of-the-art models. To address the performance gap between open-source and proprietary models, we propose the Decompose, Critique and Refine (DeCRIM) self-correction pipeline, which enhances LLMs{'} ability to follow constraints. DeCRIM works by decomposing the original instruction into a list of constraints and using a Critic model to decide when and where the LLM{'}s response needs refinement. Our results show that DeCRIM improves Mistral{'}s performance by 7.3{\\%} on RealInstruct and 8.0{\\%} on IFEval even with weak feedback. Moreover, we demonstrate that with strong feedback, open-source LLMs with DeCRIM can outperform GPT-4 on both benchmarks."}
{"Title": "Learning to Plan for Retrieval-Augmented Large Language Models from Knowledge Graphs", "Abstract": "Improving the performance of large language models (LLMs) in complex question-answering (QA) scenarios has always been a research focal point. Recent studies have attempted to enhance LLMs{'} performance by combining step-wise planning with external retrieval. While effective for advanced models like GPT-3.5, smaller LLMs face challenges in decomposing complex questions, necessitating supervised fine-tuning. Previous work has relied on manual annotation and knowledge distillation from teacher LLMs, which are time-consuming and not accurate enough. In this paper, we introduce a novel framework for enhancing LLMs{'} planning capabilities by using planning data derived from knowledge graphs (KGs). LLMs fine-tuned with this data have improved planning capabilities, better equipping them to handle complex QA tasks that involve retrieval. Evaluations on multiple datasets, including our newly proposed benchmark, highlight the effectiveness of our framework and the benefits of KG-derived planning data."}
{"Title": "Is Compound Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis Addressed by LLMs?", "Abstract": "Aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) aims to predict aspect-based elements from the given text, mainly including four elements, i.e., aspect category, sentiment polarity, aspect term, and opinion term. Extracting pair, triple, or quad of elements is defined as compound ABSA. Due to its challenges and practical applications, such a compound scenario has become an emerging topic. Recently, large language models (LLMs), e.g. ChatGPT and LLaMA, present impressive abilities in tackling various human instructions. In this work, we are particularly curious whether LLMs still possess superior performance in handling compound ABSA tasks. To assess the performance of LLMs, we design a novel framework, called ChatABSA. Concretely, we design two strategies: constrained prompts, to automatically organize the returned predictions; post-processing, to better evaluate the capability of LLMs in recognition of implicit information. The overall evaluation involves 5 compound ABSA tasks and 8 publicly available datasets. We compare LLMs with few-shot supervised baselines and fully supervised baselines, including corresponding state-of-the-art (SOTA) models on each task. Experimental results show that ChatABSA exhibits excellent aspect-based sentiment analysis capabilities and overwhelmingly beats few-shot supervised methods under the same few-shot settings. Surprisingly, it can even outperform fully supervised methods in some cases. However, in most cases, it underperforms fully supervised methods, and there is still a huge gap between its performance and the SOTA method. Moreover, we also conduct more analyses to gain a deeper understanding of its sentiment analysis capabilities."}
{"Title": "Multilingual Fine-Grained News Headline Hallucination Detection", "Abstract": "The popularity of automated news headline generation has surged with advancements in pre-trained language models. However, these models often suffer from the {``}hallucination{''} problem, where the generated headline is not fully supported by its source article. Efforts to address this issue have predominantly focused on English, using over-simplistic classification schemes that overlook nuanced hallucination types. In this study, we introduce the first multilingual, fine-grained news headline hallucination detection dataset that contains over 11 thousand {\\textless}article, headline{\\textgreater} pairs in 5 languages, each annotated with detailed hallucination types by experts. We conduct extensive experiments on this dataset under two settings. First, we implement several supervised fine-tuning approaches as preparatory solutions and demonstrate this dataset{'}s challenges and utilities. Second, we test various large language models{'} in-context learning abilities and propose two novel techniques, language-dependent demonstration selection and coarse-to-fine prompting, to boost the few-shot hallucination detection performance in terms of the example-F1 metric. We release this dataset to foster further research in multilingual, fine-grained headline hallucination detection."}
{"Title": "PE: A Poincare Explanation Method for Fast Text Hierarchy Generation", "Abstract": "The black-box nature of deep learning models in NLP hinders their widespread application. The research focus has shifted to Hierarchical Attribution (HA) for its ability to model feature interactions. Recent works model non-contiguous combinations with a time-costly greedy search in Eculidean spaces, neglecting underlying linguistic information in feature representations. In this work, we introduce a novel method, namely Poincare Explanation (PE), for modeling feature interactions with hyperbolic spaces in a time efficient manner.Specifically, we take building text hierarchies as finding spanning trees in hyperbolic spaces. First we project the embeddings into hyperbolic spaces to elicit inherit semantic and syntax hierarchical structures. Then we propose a simple yet effective strategy to calculate Shapley score. Finally we build the the hierarchy with proving the constructing process in the projected space could be viewed as building a minimum spanning tree and introduce a time efficient building algorithm. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach. Our code is available at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/PE-747B."}
{"Title": "Step-level Value Preference Optimization for Mathematical Reasoning", "Abstract": "Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) using an implicit reward model has proven to be an effective alternative to reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) for fine-tuning preference aligned large language models (LLMs). However, the overall preference annotations of responses do not fully capture the fine-grained quality of model outputs in complex multi-step reasoning tasks, such as mathematical reasoning. To address this limitation, we introduce a novel algorithm called Step-level Value Preference Optimization (SVPO). Our approach employs Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) to automatically annotate step-level preferences for multi-step reasoning. Furthermore, from the perspective of learning-to-rank, we train an explicit value model to replicate the behavior of the implicit reward model, complementing standard preference optimization. This value model enables the LLM to generate higher reward responses with minimal cost during inference. Experimental results demonstrate that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on both in-domain and out-of-domain mathematical reasoning benchmarks."}
{"Title": "Towards Benchmarking Situational Awareness of Large Language Models:Comprehensive Benchmark, Evaluation and Analysis", "Abstract": "Situational awareness refers to the capacity to perceive and comprehend the present context and anticipate forthcoming events, which plays a critical role in aiding decision-making, anticipating potential issues, and adapting to dynamic circumstances. Nevertheless, the situational awareness capabilities of large language models have not yet been comprehensively assessed. To address this, we propose SA-Bench, a comprehensive benchmark that covers three tiers of situational awareness capabilities, covering environment perception, situation comprehension and future projection. SA-Bench provides a comprehensive evaluation to explore the situational awareness capabilities of LLMs. We conduct extensive experiments on advanced LLMs, including GPT-4, LLaMA3, Qwen1.5, among others. Our experimental results indicate that even SOTA LLMs still exhibit substantial capability gaps compared to humans. In addition, we thoroughly analysis and examine the challenges encountered by LLMs across various tasks, as well as emphasize the deficiencies they confront. We hope SA-Bench will foster research within the field of situational awareness."}
{"Title": "Balancing Visual Context Understanding in Dialogue for Image Retrieval", "Abstract": "In the realm of dialogue-to-image retrieval, the primary challenge is to fetch images from a pre-compiled database that accurately reflect the intent embedded within the dialogue history. Existing methods often overemphasize inter-modal alignment, neglecting the nuanced nature of conversational context. Dialogue histories are frequently cluttered with redundant information and often lack direct image descriptions, leading to a substantial disconnect between conversational content and visual representation. This study introduces VCU, a novel framework designed to enhance the comprehension of dialogue history and improve cross-modal matching for image retrieval. VCU leverages large language models (LLMs) to perform a two-step extraction process. It generates precise image-related descriptions from dialogues, while also enhancing visual representation by utilizing object-list texts associated with images. Additionally, auxiliary query collections are constructed to balance the matching process, thereby reducing bias in similarity computations. Experimental results demonstrate that VCU significantly outperforms baseline methods in dialogue-to-image retrieval tasks, highlighting its potential for practical application and effectiveness in bridging the gap between dialogue context and visual content."}
{"Title": "Mechanistic Understanding and Mitigation of Language Model Non-Factual Hallucinations", "Abstract": "State-of-the-art language models (LMs) sometimes generate that misalign with world knowledge. To explore the mechanistic causes of these hallucinations, we create diagnostic datasets with subject-relation queries and adapt interpretability methods to trace hallucinations through internal model representations. We discover two general and distinct mechanistic causes of hallucinations shared across LMs (Llama-2, Pythia, GPT-J): 1) : insufficient subject attribute knowledge in lower layer MLPs, and 2) : failure to select the correct object attribute in upper layer attention heads. We also found these two internal mechanistic causes of hallucinations are reflected in external manifestations. Based on insights from our mechanistic analysis, we propose a novel hallucination mitigation method through targeted restoration of the LM{'}s internal fact recall pipeline, demonstrating superior performance compared to baselines."}
{"Title": "A Study of Implicit Ranking Unfairness in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated a superior ability to serve as ranking models. However, concerns have arisen as LLMs will exhibit discriminatory ranking behaviors based on users{'} sensitive attributes (gender). Worse still, in this paper, we identify a subtler form of discrimination in LLMs, termed \\textit{implicit ranking unfairness}, where LLMs exhibit discriminatory ranking patterns based solely on non-sensitive user profiles, such as user names. Such implicit unfairness is more widespread but less noticeable, threatening the ethical foundation. To comprehensively explore such unfairness, our analysis will focus on three research aspects: (1) We propose an evaluation method to investigate the severity of implicit ranking unfairness. (2) We uncover the reasons for causing such unfairness. (3) To mitigate such unfairness effectively, we utilize a pair-wise regression method to conduct fair-aware data augmentation for LLM fine-tuning. The experiment demonstrates that our method outperforms existing approaches in ranking fairness, achieving this with only a small reduction in accuracy. Lastly, we emphasize the need for the community to identify and mitigate the implicit unfairness, aiming to avert the potential deterioration in the reinforced human-LLMs ecosystem deterioration."}
{"Title": "Information Parity: Measuring and Predicting the Multilingual Capabilities of Language Models", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly deployed in user-facing applications worldwide, necessitating handling multiple languages across various tasks. We propose a metric called Information Parity (IP) that can predict an LLM{'}s capabilities across multiple languages in a task-agnostic manner. IP is well-motivated from an information theoretic perspective: it is associated with the LLM{'}s efficiency of compressing the text in a given language compared to a reference language. We evaluate IP and other popular metrics such as Tokenization Parity (TP) and Tokenizer Fertility (TF) on several variants of open-sourced LLMs (Llama2, Gemma, Mistral). Among all metrics known to us, IP is better correlated with existing task-specific benchmark scores from the literature and thus better predicts such scores in a certain language. These findings show that IP may be useful for ranking multilingual LLMs{'} capabilities regardless of the downstream task."}
{"Title": "Better Call SAUL: Fluent and Consistent Language Model Editing with Generation Regularization", "Abstract": "To ensure large language models contain up-to-date knowledge, they need to be updated regularly. However, model editing is challenging as it might also affect knowledge that is unrelated to the new data. State-of-the-art methods identify parameters associated with specific knowledge and then modify them via direct weight updates. However, these locate-and-edit methods suffer from heavy computational overhead and lack theoretical validation. In contrast, directly fine-tuning the model on requested edits affects the model{'}s behavior on unrelated knowledge, and significantly damages the model{'}s generation fluency and consistency. To address these challenges, we propose SAUL, a streamlined model editing method that uses sentence concatenation with augmented random facts for generation regularization. Evaluations on three model editing benchmarks show that is a practical and reliable solution for model editing outperforming state-of-the-art methods while maintaining generation quality and reducing computational overhead."}
{"Title": "A Semantic Search Engine for Mathlib4", "Abstract": "The interactive theorem prover Lean enables the verification of formal mathematical proofs and is backed by an expanding community. Central to this ecosystem is its mathematical library, mathlib4, which lays the groundwork for the formalization of an expanding range of mathematical theories. However, searching for theorems in mathlib4 can be challenging. To successfully search in mathlib4, users often need to be familiar with its naming conventions or documentation strings. Therefore, creating a semantic search engine that can be used easily by individuals with varying familiarity with mathlib4 is very important. In this paper, we present a semantic search engine for mathlib4 that accepts informal queries and finds the relevant theorems. We also establish a benchmark for assessing the performance of various search engines for mathlib4."}
{"Title": "DyKnow: Dynamically Verifying Time-Sensitive Factual Knowledge in LLMs", "Abstract": "LLMs acquire knowledge from massive data snapshots collected at different timestamps. Their knowledge is then commonly evaluated using static benchmarks. However, factual knowledge is generally subject to time-sensitive changes, and static benchmarks cannot address those cases. We present an approach to dynamically evaluate the knowledge in LLMs and their time-sensitiveness against Wikidata, a publicly available up-to-date knowledge graph. We evaluate the time-sensitive knowledge in twenty-four private and open-source LLMs, as well as the effectiveness of four editing methods in updating the outdated facts. Our results show that 1) outdatedness is a critical problem across state-of-the-art LLMs; 2) LLMs output inconsistent answers when prompted with slight variations of the question prompt; and 3) the performance of the state-of-the-art knowledge editing algorithms is very limited, as they can not reduce the cases of outdatedness and output inconsistency."}
{"Title": "Rewarding What Matters: Step-by-Step Reinforcement Learning for Task-Oriented Dialogue", "Abstract": "Reinforcement learning (RL) is a powerful approach to enhance task-oriented dialogue (TOD) systems. However, existing RL methods tend to mainly focus on generation tasks, such as dialogue policy learning (DPL) or response generation (RG), while neglecting dialogue state tracking (DST) for understanding. This narrow focus limits the systems to achieve globally optimal performance by overlooking the interdependence between understanding and generation. Additionally, RL methods face challenges with sparse and delayed rewards, which complicates training and optimization. To address these issues, we extend RL into both understanding and generation tasks by introducing step-by-step rewards throughout the token generation. The understanding reward increases as more slots are correctly filled in DST, while the generation reward grows with the accurate inclusion of user requests. Our approach provides a balanced optimization aligned with task completion. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach effectively enhances the performance of TOD systems and achieves new state-of-the-art results on three widely used datasets, including MultiWOZ2.0, MultiWOZ2.1, and In-Car. Our approach also shows superior few-shot ability in low-resource settings compared to current models."}
{"Title": "Assistive Large Language Model Agents for Socially-Aware Negotiation Dialogues", "Abstract": "We develop assistive agents based on Large Language Models (LLMs) that aid interlocutors in business negotiations.Specifically, we simulate business negotiations by letting two LLM-based agents engage in role play. A third LLM acts as a remediator agent to rewrite utterances violating norms for improving negotiation outcomes.We introduce a simple tuning-free and label-free In-Context Learning (ICL) method to identify high-quality ICL exemplars for the remediator, where we propose a novel select criteria, called \\textit{value impact}, to measure the quality of the negotiation outcomes. We provide rich empirical evidence to demonstrate its effectiveness in negotiations across three different negotiation topics. We have released our source code and the generated dataset at: https://github.com/tk1363704/SADAS."}
{"Title": "HoLLMwood: Unleashing the Creativity of Large Language Models in Screenwriting via Role Playing", "Abstract": "Generative AI has demonstrated unprecedented creativity in the field of computer vision, yet such phenomena have not been observed in natural language processing. In particular, large language models (LLMs) can hardly produce written works at the level of human experts due to the extremely high complexity of literature writing. In this paper, we present HoLLMwood, an automated framework for unleashing the creativity of LLMs and exploring their potential in screenwriting, which is a highly demanding task. Mimicking the human creative process, we assign LLMs to different roles involved in the real-world scenario. In addition to the common practice of treating LLMs as $Writer$, we also apply LLMs as $Editor$, who is responsible for providing feedback and revision advice to $Writer$. Besides, to enrich the characters and deepen the plots, we introduce a role-playing mechanism and adopt LLMs as $Actors$ that can communicate and interact with each other. Evaluations on automatically generated screenplays show that HoLLMwood substantially outperforms strong baselines in terms of coherence, relevance, interestingness and overall quality."}
{"Title": "Advancing Cross-Lingual Entity Alignment with Large Language Models: Tailored Sample Segmentation and Zero-Shot Prompts", "Abstract": "In recent years, the advent of large language models (LLMs) like GPT and Llama has significantly influenced numerous domains, particularly in advancing natural language processing (NLP) capabilities. LLMs have shown remarkable performance in NLP tasks such as relation extraction (RE) and knowledge graph completion (KGC), enhancing activities related to knowledge graphs. As a result, there is a growing interest in integrating LLMs into cross-lingual entity alignment (EA) task, which aims to identify equivalent entities across various knowledge graphs, thereby improving the performance of current baselines. However, employing LLMs for entity alignment poses challenges in efficiently handling large-scale data, generating suitable data samples, and adapting prompts for the EA task. To tackle these challenges, we propose Seg-Align, an innovative framework that integrating distance feature extraction, sample **Seg**mentation, and zero-shot prompts. Through extensive experiments on two widely used cross-lingual benchmark datasets, we have not only demonstrated the effectiveness of our proposed sample segmentation algorithm but also highlighted the state-of-the-art performance of Seg-Align. Code is available at https://github.com/yangxiaoxiaoly/Seg-Align."}
{"Title": "Causal Discovery Inspired Unsupervised Domain Adaptation for Emotion-Cause Pair Extraction", "Abstract": "This paper tackles the task of emotion-cause pair extraction in the unsupervised domain adaptation setting.The problem is challenging as the distributions of the events causing emotions in target domains are dramatically different than those in source domains, despite the distributions of emotional expressions between domains are overlapped. Inspired by causal discovery,we propose a novel deep latent model in the variational autoencoder (VAE) framework, which not only captures the underlying latent structures of data but also utilizes the easily transferable knowledge of emotions as the bridge to link the distributions of events in different domains. To facilitate knowledge transfer across domains, we also propose a novel variational posterior regularization technique to disentangle the latent representations of emotions from those of events in order to mitigate the damage caused by the spurious correlations related to the events in source domains. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that our model outperforms the strongest baseline by approximately 11.05{\\%} on a Chinese benchmark and 2.45{\\%} on a English benchmark in terms of weighted-average F1 score. We have released our source code and the generated dataset publicly at: https://github.com/tk1363704/CAREL-VAE."}
{"Title": "Large Language Models are Students at Various Levels: Zero-shot Question Difficulty Estimation", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in educational platforms have emphasized the importance of personalized education. Accurately estimating question difficulty based on the ability of the student group is essential for personalized question recommendations. Several studies have focused on predicting question difficulty using student question-solving records or textual information about the questions. However, these approaches require a large amount of student question-solving records and fail to account for the subjective difficulties perceived by different student groups. To address these limitations, we propose the LLaSA framework that utilizes large language models to represent students at various levels. Our proposed method, LLaSA and the zero-shot LLaSA, can estimate question difficulty both with and without students{'} question-solving records. In evaluations on the DBE-KT22 and ASSISTMents 2005{--}2006 benchmarks, the zero-shot LLaSA demonstrated a performance comparable to those of strong baseline models even without any training. When evaluated using the classification method, LLaSA outperformed the baseline models, achieving state-of-the-art performance. In addition, the zero-shot LLaSA showed a high correlation with the regressed IRT curve when compared to question difficulty derived from students{'} question-solving records, highlighting its potential for real-world applications."}
{"Title": "Inverse-Q*: Token Level Reinforcement Learning for Aligning Large Language Models Without Preference Data", "Abstract": "Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) has proven effective in aligning large language models with human intentions, yet it often relies on complex methodologies like Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) that require extensive hyper-parameter tuning and present challenges in sample efficiency and stability. In this paper, we introduce Inverse-Q*, an innovative framework that transcends traditional RL methods by optimizing token-level reinforcement learning without the need for additional reward or value models. Inverse-Q* leverages direct preference optimization techniques but extends them by estimating the conditionally optimal policy directly from the model{'}s responses, facilitating more granular and flexible policy shaping. Our approach reduces reliance on human annotation and external supervision, making it especially suitable for low-resource settings. We present extensive experimental results demonstrating that Inverse-Q* not only matches but potentially exceeds the effectiveness of PPO in terms of convergence speed and the alignment of model responses with human preferences. Our findings suggest that Inverse-Q* offers a practical and robust alternative to conventional RLHF approaches, paving the way for more efficient and adaptable model training approaches."}
{"Title": "Activation Scaling for Steering and Interpreting Language Models", "Abstract": "Given the prompt {``}Rome is in{''}, can we steer a language model to flip its prediction of an incorrect token {``}France{''} to a correct token {``}Italy{''} by only multiplying a few relevant activation vectors with scalars? We argue that successfully intervening on a model is a prerequisite for interpreting its internal workings. Concretely, we establish a three-term objective: a successful intervention should flip the correct with the wrong token and vice versa (effectiveness), and leave other tokens unaffected (faithfulness), all while being sparse (minimality). Using gradient-based optimization, this objective lets us learn (and later evaluate) a specific kind of efficient and interpretable intervention: activation scaling only modifies the signed magnitude of activation vectors to strengthen, weaken, or reverse the steering directions already encoded in the model. On synthetic tasks, this intervention performs comparably with steering vectors in terms of effectiveness and faithfulness, but is much more minimal allowing us to pinpoint interpretable model components. We evaluate activation scaling from different angles, compare performance on different datasets, and make activation scalars a learnable function of the activation vectors themselves to generalize to varying-length prompts."}
{"Title": "LaRA: Large Rank Adaptation for Speech and Text Cross-Modal Learning in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Integrating speech and text capabilities into large language models (LLMs) is a challenging task and we present Large Rank Adaptation (LaRA) for effective cross-modal integration of speech and text in the LLM framework. Unlike conventional LoRA, our method requires significantly larger ranks comparable to the pretrained weights to accommodate the complexities of speech-text cross-modality learning. The approach utilizes HuBERT to convert speech into discrete tokens and fine-tunes the pretrained LLM to adapt to cross-modal inputs and outputs. The work employs a Hi-Fi GAN vocoder to synthesize speech waveforms from the generated speech units. The initial studies use the Librispeech corpus to teach the model the relationships between speech and text, and Daily Talk, which involves dialog conversations, to adapt for interaction. The proposed work demonstrates adaptation for spoken and text conversations. However, the proposed framework can be easily extended to other cross-modal applications."}
{"Title": "DTS-SQL: Decomposed Text-to-SQL with Small Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Leading models for the text-to-SQL task heavily rely on proprietary Large Language Models (LLMs), posing concerns over data privacy. Closing the performance gap between small open-source models and large proprietary models is crucial to mitigate this reliance. To this end, we introduce a novel two-stage fine-tuning approach that decomposes the task into two simpler tasks. Through comprehensive evaluation on three large cross-domain datasets and two small LLMs, we show that this approach improves execution accuracy by 3 to 7 percent, effectively aligning the performance of open-source models with their proprietary counterparts. Our proposed method has achieved 60.31{\\%} execution accuracy on Bird hold-out test set, which is the highest performance among methods using 7B parameter models."}
{"Title": "MedINST: Meta Dataset of Biomedical Instructions", "Abstract": "The integration of large language model (LLM) techniques in the field of medical analysis has brought about significant advancements, yet the scarcity of large, diverse, and well-annotated datasets remains a major challenge. Medical data and tasks, which vary in format, size, and other parameters, require extensive preprocessing and standardization for effective use in training LLMs. To address these challenges, we introduce MedINST, the Meta Dataset of Biomedical Instructions, a novel multi-domain, multi-task instructional meta-dataset. MedINST comprises 133 biomedical NLP tasks and over 7 million training samples, making it the most comprehensive biomedical instruction dataset to date. Using MedINST as the meta dataset, we curate MedINST32, a challenging benchmark with different task difficulties aiming to evaluate LLMs{'} generalization ability. We fine-tune several LLMs on MedINST and evaluate on MedINST32, showcasing enhanced cross-task generalization."}
{"Title": "PropTest: Automatic Property Testing for Improved Visual Programming", "Abstract": "Visual Programming has recently emerged as an alternative to end-to-end black-box visual reasoning models. This type of method leverages Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate the source code for an executable computer program that solves a given problem. This strategy has the advantage of offering an interpretable reasoning path and does not require finetuning a model with task-specific data. We propose PropTest, a general strategy that improves visual programming by further using an LLM to generate code that tests for visual properties in an initial round of proposed solutions. Our method generates tests for data-type consistency, output syntax, and semantic properties. PropTest achieves comparable results to state-of-the-art methods while using publicly available LLMs. This is demonstrated across different benchmarks on visual question answering and referring expression comprehension. Particularly, PropTest improves ViperGPT by obtaining 46.1{\\%} accuracy (+6.0{\\%}) on GQA using Llama3-8B and 59.5{\\%} (+8.1{\\%}) on RefCOCO+ using CodeLlama-34B."}
{"Title": "BadFair: Backdoored Fairness Attacks with Group-conditioned Triggers", "Abstract": "Although many works have been developed to improve the fairness of deep learning models, their resilience against malicious attacks{---}particularly the growing threat of backdoor attacks{---}has not been thoroughly explored.Attacking fairness is crucial because compromised models can introduce biased outcomes, undermining trust and amplifying inequalities in sensitive applications like hiring, healthcare, and law enforcement. This highlights the urgent need to understand how fairness mechanisms can be exploited and to develop defenses that ensure both fairness and robustness. We introduce *BadFair*, a novel backdoored fairness attack methodology. BadFair stealthily crafts a model that operates with accuracy and fairness under regular conditions but, when activated by certain triggers, discriminates and produces incorrect results for specific groups. This type of attack is particularly stealthy and dangerous, as it circumvents existing fairness detection methods, maintaining an appearance of fairness in normal use. Our findings reveal that BadFair achieves a more than 85{\\%} attack success rate in attacks aimed at target groups on average while only incurring a minimal accuracy loss. Moreover, it consistently exhibits a significant discrimination score, distinguishing between pre-defined target and non-target attacked groups across various datasets and models."}
{"Title": "Is GPT-4V (ision) All You Need for Automating Academic Data Visualization? Exploring Vision-Language Models' Capability in Reproducing Academic Charts", "Abstract": "While effective data visualization is crucial to present complex information in academic research, its creation demands significant expertise in both data management and graphic design. We explore the potential of using Vision-Language Models (VLMs) in automating the creation of data visualizations by generating code templates from existing charts. As the first work to systematically investigate this task, we first introduce AcademiaChart, a dataset comprising 2525 high-resolution data visualization figures with captions from a variety of AI conferences, extracted directly from source codes. We then conduct large-scale experiments with six state-of-the-art (SOTA) VLMs, including both closed-source and open-source models. Our findings reveal that SOTA closed-source VLMs can indeed be helpful in reproducing charts. On the contrary, open-source ones are only effective at reproducing much simpler charts but struggle with more complex ones. Interestingly, the application of Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting significantly enhances the performance of the most advanced model, GPT-4-V, while it does not work as well for other models. These results underscore the potential of VLMs in data visualization while also highlighting critical areas that need improvement for broader application."}
{"Title": "Financial Forecasting from Textual and Tabular Time Series", "Abstract": "There is a variety of multimodal data pertinent to public companies, spanning from accounting statements, macroeconomic statistics, earnings conference calls, and financial reports. These diverse modalities capture the state of firms from a variety of different perspectives but requires complex interactions to reconcile in the formation of accurate financial predictions. The commonality between these different modalities is that they all represent a time series, typically observed for a particular firm at a quarterly horizon, providing the ability to model trends and variations of company data over time. However, the time series of these diverse modalities contains varying temporal and cross-channel patterns that are challenging to model without the appropriate inductive biases. In this work, we design a novel multimodal time series prediction task that includes numerical financial results, macroeconomic states, and long financial documents to predict next quarter{'}s company earnings relative to analyst expectations. We explore a variety of approaches for this novel setting, establish strong unimodal baselines, and propose a multimodal model that exhibits state-of-the-art performance on this unique task. We demonstrate that each modality contains unique information and that the best performing model requires careful fusion of the different modalities in a multi-stage training approach. To better understand model behavior, we conduct a variety of probing experiments, reveal insights into the value of different modalities, and demonstrate the practical utility of our proposed method in a simulated trading setting."}
{"Title": "Learning to Ask Denotative and Connotative Questions for Knowledge-based VQA", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have attracted increasing attention due to its prominent performance on various tasks. Recent works seek to leverage LLMs on knowledge-based visual question answering (VQA) tasks which require common sense knowledge to answer the question about an image, since LLMs have obtained rich knowledge from large-scale training. Several methods have proposed to leverage frozen LLMs by converting visual information to textual prompts. However, how to efficiently exploit the knowledge of LLMs and bridge the disconnects between visual information and language models remain open problems. In this paper, we propose to let LLMs learn to ask (L2A) informative questions to collect essential visual information. We introduce the concepts of denotation and connotation to promote image and question understanding and provide a clear guidance with respect to the objective of question generation. In this way, the model can better capture the associations between different concepts, as well as efficiently collect both explicit information and implicit relevant information that contribute to the final answer. The experiments demonstrate that our proposed method achieves consistent performance on various knowledge-based VQA datasets."}
{"Title": "CONTOR: Benchmarking Strategies for Completing Ontologies with Plausible Missing Rules", "Abstract": "We consider the problem of finding plausible rules that are missing from a given ontology. A number of strategies for this problem have already been considered in the literature. Little is known about the relative performance of these strategies, however, as they have thus far been evaluated on different ontologies. Moreover, existing evaluations have focused on distinguishing held-out ontology rules from randomly corrupted ones, which often makes the task unrealistically easy and leads to the presence of incorrectly labelled negative examples. To address these concerns, we introduce a benchmark with manually annotated hard negatives and use this benchmark to evaluate ontology completion models. In addition to previously proposed models, we test the effectiveness of several approaches that have not yet been considered for this task, including LLMs and simple but effective hybrid strategies."}
{"Title": "Towards Pareto-Efficient RLHF: Paying Attention to a Few High-Reward Samples with Reward Dropout", "Abstract": "Recently, leveraging reinforcement learning (RL) to fine-tune language models (LMs), known as reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF), has become an important research topic. However, there is still a lack of theoretical understanding of how RLHF works, the conditions under which it succeeds or fails, and whether it guarantees optimization of both likelihood $\\beta(\\cdot)$ and reward $R(\\cdot)$ objectives. To address these issues, we consider RLHF as a bi-objective problem that has the nature of a \\textit{Pareto} optimization, present a Pareto improvement condition that is necessary to obtain Pareto-efficient policies, and propose a simple yet powerful method named \\textit{reward dropout} that guarantees a Pareto improvement. To demonstrate the performance of reward dropout, two benchmark datasets commonly used in text style transfer tasks were utilized in our study: sentiment and topic datasets sourced from Yelp and AG{\\_}News, respectively. Our experiments highlight that paying attention to a few samples with higher rewards leads to greater Pareto improvements regardless of model size. We also demonstrate that the effect of reward dropout is generalizable and most effective with non-pretrained target models, saving the effort of pretraining."}
{"Title": "Weak-to-Strong Reasoning", "Abstract": "When large language models (LLMs) surpass human capabilities, supervising them effectively becomes difficult. \\textit{Weak-to-strong learning}, where a less capable model enhances a stronger one, proves valuable in this context. Yet, the efficacy of this paradigm for complex reasoning tasks is still unexplored. In this paper, we introduce a progressive weak-to-strong reasoning framework that enables the strong model to autonomously refine its training data, maximizing the use of weak signals and unlocking its latent abilities. This framework begins with supervised fine-tuning on a selective small but high-quality dataset, followed by preference optimization on contrastive samples identified by the strong model itself. Experiments on the GSM8K and MATH datasets verify that our method can effectively improve the reasoning capabilities of Llama2-70b using three separate weak models. This work paves the way for a more scalable and sophisticated strategy to enhance AI reasoning powers. All relevant code and resources are available in \\url{https://github.com/GAIR-NLP/weak-to-strong-reasoning}."}
{"Title": "Fine-Tuning Language Models with Differential Privacy through Adaptive Noise Allocation", "Abstract": "Language models are capable of memorizing detailed patterns and information, leading to a double-edged effect: they achieve impressive modeling performance on downstream tasks with the stored knowledge but also raise significant privacy concerns. Traditional differential privacy based training approaches offer robust safeguards by employing a uniform noise distribution across all parameters. However, this overlooks the distinct sensitivities and contributions of individual parameters in privacy protection and often results in suboptimal models. To address these limitations, we propose ANADP, a novel algorithm that adaptively allocates additive noise based on the importance of model parameters. We demonstrate that ANADP narrows the performance gap between regular fine-tuning and traditional DP fine-tuning on a series of datasets while maintaining the required privacy constraints."}
{"Title": "The Mystery of Compositional Generalization in Graph-based Generative Commonsense Reasoning", "Abstract": "While LLMs have emerged as performant architectures for reasoning tasks, their compositional generalization capabilities have been questioned. In this work, we introduce a Compositional Generalization Challenge for Graph-based Commonsense Reasoning (CGGC) that goes beyond previous evaluations that are based on sequences or tree structures {--} and instead involves a reasoning graph: It requires models to generate a natural sentence based on given concepts and a corresponding reasoning graph, where the presented graph involves a previously unseen combination of relation types. To master this challenge, models need to learn how to reason over relation tupels within the graph, and how to compose them when conceptualizing a verbalization. We evaluate seven well-known LLMs using in-context learning and find that performant LLMs still struggle in compositional generalization. We investigate potential causes of this gap by analyzing the structures of reasoning graphs, and find that different structures present varying levels of difficulty for compositional generalization. Arranging the order of demonstrations according to the structures{'} difficulty shows that organizing samples in an easy-to-hard schema enhances the compositional generalization ability of LLMs."}
{"Title": "AutoHallusion: Automatic Generation of Hallucination Benchmarks for Vision-Language Models", "Abstract": "Large vision-language models (LVLMs) are prone to hallucinations, where certain contextual cues in an image can trigger the language module to produce overconfident and incorrect reasoning about abnormal or hypothetical objects. While some benchmarks have been developed to investigate LVLM hallucinations, they often rely on hand-crafted corner cases whose failure patterns may not generalize well. Additionally, fine-tuning on these examples could undermine their validity. To address this, we aim to scale up the number of cases through an automated approach, reducing human bias in crafting such corner cases. This motivates the development of AutoHallusion, the first automated benchmark generation approach that employs several key strategies to create a diverse range of hallucination examples. Our generated visual-question pairs pose significant challenges to LVLMs, requiring them to overcome contextual biases and distractions to arrive at correct answers. AutoHallusion enables us to create new benchmarks at the minimum cost and thus overcomes the fragility of hand-crafted benchmarks. It also reveals common failure patterns and reasons, providing key insights to detect, avoid, or control hallucinations. Comprehensive evaluations of top-tier LVLMs, e.g., GPT-4V(ision), Gemini Pro Vision, Claude 3, and LLaVA-1.5, show a 97.7{\\%} and 98.7{\\%} success rate of hallucination induction on synthetic and real-world datasets of AutoHallusion, paving the way for a long battle against hallucinations. The codebase and data can be accessed at https://github.com/wuxiyang1996/AutoHallusion"}
{"Title": "MetaKP: On-Demand Keyphrase Generation", "Abstract": "Traditional keyphrase prediction methods predict a single set of keyphrases per document, failing to cater to the diverse needs of users and downstream applications. To bridge the gap, we introduce on-demand keyphrase generation, a novel paradigm that requires keyphrases that conform to specific high-level goals or intents. For this task, we present MetaKP, a large-scale benchmark comprising four datasets, 7500 documents, and 3760 goals across news and biomedical domains with human-annotated keyphrases. Leveraging MetaKP, we design both supervised and unsupervised methods, including a multi-task fine-tuning approach and a self-consistency prompting method with large language models. The results highlight the challenges of supervised fine-tuning, whose performance is not robust to distribution shifts. By contrast, the proposed self-consistency prompting approach greatly improves the performance of large language models, enabling GPT-4o to achieve 0.548 SemF1, surpassing the performance of a fully fine-tuned BART-base model. Finally, we demonstrate the potential of our method to serve as a general NLP infrastructure, exemplified by its application in epidemic event detection from social media."}
{"Title": "PSST: A Benchmark for Evaluation-driven Text Public-Speaking Style Transfer", "Abstract": "Language style is necessary for AI systems to accurately understand and generate diverse human language. However, previous text style transfer primarily focused on sentence-level data-driven approaches, limiting exploration of potential problems in large language models (LLMs) and the ability to meet complex application needs. To overcome these limitations, we introduce a novel task called Public-Speaking Style Transfer (PSST), which aims to simulate humans to transform passage-level, official texts into a public-speaking style. Grounded in the analysis of real-world data from a linguistic perspective, we decompose public-speaking style into key sub-styles to pose challenges and quantify the style modeling capability of LLMs. For such intricate text style transfer, we further propose a fine-grained evaluation framework to analyze the characteristics and identify the problems of stylized texts. Comprehensive experiments suggest that current LLMs struggle to generate public speaking texts that align with human preferences, primarily due to excessive stylization and loss of semantic information. We will release our data, code, and model upon acceptance."}
{"Title": "TRACE the Evidence: Constructing Knowledge-Grounded Reasoning Chains for Retrieval-Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) offers an effective approach for addressing question answering (QA) tasks. However, the imperfections of the retrievers in RAG models often result in the retrieval of irrelevant information, which could introduce noise and degrade the performance, especially when handling multi-hop questions that require multiple steps of reasoning. To enhance the multi-hop reasoning ability of RAG models, we propose TRACE. TRACE constructs knowledge-grounded reasoning chains, which are a series of logically connected knowledge triples, to identify and integrate supporting evidence from the retrieved documents for answering questions. Specifically, TRACE employs a KG Generator to create a knowledge graph (KG) from the retrieved documents, and then uses a novel Autoregressive Reasoning Chain Constructor to build reasoning chains. Experimental results on three multi-hop QA datasets show that TRACE achieves an average performance improvement of up to 14.03{\\%} compared to using all the retrieved documents. Moreover, the results indicate that using reasoning chains as context, rather than the entire documents, is often sufficient to correctly answer questions."}
{"Title": "Enable Fast Sampling for Seq2Seq Text Diffusion", "Abstract": "Diffusion models exhibit promising capacity for generating high-quality text. However, owing to the curved nature of generation path, they necessitate traversing numerous steps to guarantee the text quality. In this paper, we propose an efficient model FMSeq, which utilizes flow matching to straighten the generation path, thereby enabling fast sampling for diffusion-based seq2seq text generation. Specifically, we construct transport flow only on the target sequences to adapt the diffusion-based model with flow matching. Furthermore, we explore different settings and identify target-parameterization, self-conditioning and time-difference as three effective techniques to improve the generation quality under a few steps. Experiments on four popular tasks demonstrate that FMSeq generates texts of comparable quality to the SOTA diffusion-based DiffuSeq in just 10 steps, achieving a 200-fold speedup."}
{"Title": "AlignSum: Data Pyramid Hierarchical Fine-tuning for Aligning with Human Summarization Preference", "Abstract": "Text summarization tasks commonly employ Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs) to fit diverse standard datasets. While these PLMs excel in automatic evaluations, they frequently underperform in human evaluations, indicating a deviation between their generated summaries and human summarization preferences. This discrepancy is likely due to the low quality of fine-tuning datasets and the limited availability of high-quality human-annotated data that reflect true human preference. To address this challenge, we introduce a novel human summarization preference alignment framework AlignSum. This framework consists of three parts: Firstly, we construct a Data Pymarid with extractive, abstractive, and human-annotated summary data. Secondly, we conduct the Gaussian Resampling to remove summaries with extreme lengths. Finally, we implement the two-stage hierarchical fine-tuning with Data Pymarid after Gaussian Resampling. We apply AlignSum to PLMs on the human-annotated CNN/DailyMail and BBC XSum datasets. Experiments show that with AlignSum, PLMs like BART-Large surpass 175B GPT-3 in both automatic and human evaluations. This demonstrates that AlignSum significantly enhances the alignment of language models with human summarization preferences."}
{"Title": "CHIRON: Rich Character Representations in Long-Form Narratives", "Abstract": "Characters are integral to long-form narratives, but are poorly understood by existing story analysis and generation systems. While prior work has simplified characters via graph-based methods and brief character descriptions, we aim to better tackle the problem of representing complex characters by taking inspiration from advice given to professional writers. We propose CHIRON, a new {`}character sheet{'} based representation that organizes and filters textual information about characters. We construct CHIRON sheets in two steps: a Generation Module that prompts an LLM for character information via question-answering and a Validation Module that uses automated reasoning and a domain-specific entailment model to eliminate false facts about a character. We validate CHIRON via the downstream task of masked-character prediction, where our experiments show CHIRON is better and more flexible than comparable summary-based baselines. We also show that metrics derived from CHIRON can be used to automatically infer character-centricity in stories, and that these metrics align with human judgments."}
{"Title": "Refiner: Restructure Retrieved Content Efficiently to Advance Question-Answering Capabilities", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Infrared-LLaVA: Enhancing Understanding of Infrared Images in Multi-Modal Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Expanding the understanding capabilities of multi-modal large language models (MLLMs) for infrared modality is a challenge due to the single-modality nature and limited amount of training data. Existing methods typically construct a uniform embedding space for cross-modal alignment and leverage abundant visual image data to indirectly understand infrared images. However, they ignore the supervisory signals of infrared-modality-specific attributes, which may lead to biased understanding of infrared images. To address this issue, we propose a debating multi-agent generation system which transfers knowledge from visible images to generate infrared image-text pairs and infrared instruction data. Moreover, we construct an infrared question-answering benchmark based on common infrared tasks. Experimental results from incremental fine-tuning on existing models and our Infrared-LLaVA-7B trained from scratch on infrared data demonstrate the effectiveness of the generated data and the feasibility of the generation approach."}
{"Title": "LPZero: Language Model Zero-cost Proxy Search from Zero", "Abstract": "Despite the outstanding performance, Neural Architecture Search (NAS) is criticized for massive computation. Recently, Zero-shot NAS has emerged as a promising approach by exploiting Zero-cost (ZC) proxies, which markedly reduce computational demands. Despite this, existing ZC proxies heavily rely on expert knowledge and incur significant trial-and-error costs. Particularly in NLP tasks, most existing ZC proxies fail to surpass the performance of the naive baseline. To address these challenges, we introduce a novel framework, LPZero, which is the first to automatically design zero-cost (ZC) proxies for various tasks, achieving higher ranking consistency than human-designed proxies. Specifically, we model the ZC proxy as a symbolic equation and incorporate a unified proxy search space that encompasses existing ZC proxies, which are composed of a predefined set of mathematical symbols. To heuristically search for the best ZC proxy, LPZero incorporates genetic programming to find the optimal symbolic composition. We propose a Predictive-Pruning Strategy (PPS), which preemptively eliminates unpromising proxies, thereby mitigating the risk of proxy degradation. Extensive experiments on FlexiBERT, GPT-2, and LLaMA-7B demonstrate LPZero{'}s superior ranking ability and performance on downstream tasks compared to current approaches."}
{"Title": "Traffic Light or Light Traffic? Investigating Phrasal Semantics in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Phrases are fundamental linguistic units through which humans convey semantics. This study critically examines the capacity of API-based large language models (LLMs) to comprehend phrase semantics, utilizing three human-annotated datasets. We assess the performance of LLMs in executing phrase semantic reasoning tasks guided by natural language instructions and explore the impact of common prompting techniques, including few-shot demonstrations and Chain-of-Thought reasoning. Our findings reveal that LLMs greatly outperform traditional embedding methods across the datasets; however, they do not show a significant advantage over fine-tuned methods. The effectiveness of advanced prompting strategies shows variability. We conduct detailed error analyses to interpret the limitations faced by LLMs in comprehending phrase semantics. Code and data can be found at https://github.com/memray/llm{\\_}phrase{\\_}semantics/."}
{"Title": "How Far Can In-Context Alignment Go? Exploring the State of In-Context Alignment", "Abstract": "Recent studies have demonstrated that In-Context Learning (ICL), through the use of specific demonstrations, can align Large Language Models (LLMs) with human preferences known as In-Context Alignment (ICA), indicating that models can comprehend human instructions without requiring parameter adjustments. However, the exploration of the mechanism and applicability of ICA remains limited. In this paper, we begin by dividing the context text used in ICA into three categories: format, system prompt, and example. Through ablation experiments, we investigate the effectiveness of each part in enabling ICA to function effectively. We then examine how variants in these parts impact the model{'}s alignment performance. Our findings indicate that the example part is crucial for enhancing the model{'}s alignment capabilities, with changes in examples significantly affecting alignment performance. We also conduct a comprehensive evaluation of ICA{'}s zero-shot capabilities in various alignment tasks. The results indicate that compared to parameter fine-tuning methods, ICA demonstrates superior performance in knowledge-based tasks and tool-use tasks. However, it still exhibits certain limitations in areas such as multi-turn dialogues and instruction following. Source codes and scripts are available at https://github.com/li-aolong/how-far-can-ica-go."}
{"Title": "Variational Language Concepts for Interpreting Foundation Language Models", "Abstract": "Foundation Language Models (FLMs) such as BERT and its variants have achieved remarkable success in natural language processing. To date, the interpretability of FLMs has primarily relied on the attention weights in their self-attention layers. However, these attention weights only provide word-level interpretations, failing to capture higher-level structures, and are therefore lacking in readability and intuitiveness. To address this challenge, we first provide a formal definition of *conceptual interpretation* and then propose a variational Bayesian framework, dubbed VAriational Language Concept (VALC), to go beyond word-level interpretations and provide concept-level interpretations. Our theoretical analysis shows that our VALC finds the optimal language concepts to interpret FLM predictions. Empirical results on several real-world datasets show that our method can successfully provide conceptual interpretation for FLMs."}
{"Title": "Exploring the Capability of Multimodal LLMs with Yonkoma Manga: The YManga Dataset and Its Challenging Tasks", "Abstract": "Yonkoma Manga, characterized by its four-panel structure, presents unique challenges due to its rich contextual information and strong sequential features. To address the limitations of current multimodal large language models (MLLMs) in understanding this type of data, we create a novel dataset named YManga from the Internet. After filtering out low-quality content, we collect a dataset of 1,015 yonkoma strips, containing 10,150 human annotations. We then define three challenging tasks for this dataset: panel sequence detection, generation of the author{'}s creative intention, and description generation for masked panels. These tasks progressively introduce the complexity of understanding and utilizing such image-text data. To the best of our knowledge, YManga is the first dataset specifically designed for yonkoma manga strips understanding. Extensive experiments conducted on this dataset reveal significant challenges faced by current multimodal large language models. Our results show a substantial performance gap between models and humans across all three tasks."}
{"Title": "TWBias: A Benchmark for Assessing Social Bias in Traditional Chinese Large Language Models through a Taiwan Cultural Lens", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Unlocking the Potential of Model Merging for Low-Resource Languages", "Abstract": "Adapting large language models (LLMs) to new languages typically involves continual pre-training (CT) followed by supervised fine-tuning (SFT). However, this CT-then-SFT approach struggles with limited data in the context of low-resource languages, failing to balance language modeling and task-solving capabilities. We thus propose a new model merging solution as an alternative for low-resource languages, combining models with distinct capabilities into a single model without additional training. We use model merging to develop task-solving LLMs for low-resource languages without SFT data in the target languages. Our experiments based on Llama-2-7B demonstrate that model merging effectively endows LLMs for low-resource languages with task-solving abilities, outperforming CT-then-SFT in scenarios with extremely scarce data. Observing performance saturation in model merging with increasingly more training tokens, we further analyze the merging process and introduce a slack variable to the model merging algorithm to mitigate the loss of important parameters, thereby enhancing model performance. We hope that model merging can benefit more human languages suffering from data scarcity with its higher data efficiency."}
{"Title": "PURE: Aligning LLM via Pluggable Query Reformulation for Enhanced Helpfulness", "Abstract": "Aligning large language models (LLMs) with human values and preferences is a significant challenge. Training-based methods, such as reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) and direct preference optimization (DPO), require substantial resources and are impractical for API-based LLMs. Post-processing methods decouple alignment from training but may incur high multiple-time inference costs or rely on less knowledgeable lightweight models for response refinement. In this paper, we propose a new LLM alignment paradigm from the perspective of pre-processing. By reformulating risky queries into highly relevant yet harmless ones before feeding them into LLMs, our method eliminates the high costs of training base LLMs, efficiently applies to both open-source and proprietary LLMs, and achieves a promising balance of harmlessness and helpfulness. For example, with Vicuna-7B as the LLM to align, it enhances helpfulness by 28.52{\\%} over DPO while maintaining comparable harmlessness levels. When applied to Gemini-1.5-pro, it increased harmlessness and helpfulness by 7.04{\\%} and 29.37{\\%}, respectively."}
{"Title": "MMedAgent: Learning to Use Medical Tools with Multi-modal Agent", "Abstract": "Multi-Modal Large Language Models (MLLMs), despite being successful, exhibit limited generality and often fall short when compared to specialized models. Recently, LLM-based agents have been developed to address these challenges by selecting appropriate specialized models as tools based on user inputs. However, such advancements have not been extensively explored within the medical domain. To bridge this gap, this paper introduces the first agent explicitly designed for the medical field, named \\textbf{M}ulti-modal \\textbf{Med}ical \\textbf{Agent} (MMedAgent). We curate an instruction-tuning dataset comprising six medical tools solving seven tasks across five modalities, enabling the agent to choose the most suitable tools for a given task. Comprehensive experiments demonstrate that MMedAgent achieves superior performance across a variety of medical tasks compared to state-of-the-art open-source methods and even the closed-source model, GPT-4o. Furthermore, MMedAgent exhibits efficiency in updating and integrating new medical tools."}
{"Title": "SALMON: A Structure-Aware Language Model with logicality and densification strategy for Temporal Knowledge Graph Reasoning", "Abstract": "Temporal knowledge graph reasoning (TKGR) is a crucial task that involves reasoning at known timestamps to complete the future facts and has attracted more and more attention in recent years. The current TKGR models are mainly based on graph neural networks or tensor decomposition techniques. Few works in TKGR focus on pre-trained language models (PLMs) which have powerful sequence modeling capabilities to capture the temporal associations between facts. In this paper, we propose a model SALMON: a Structure-Aware Language Model with logicality and densification strategy. Specifically, we design a PLM-based framework with a structure-aware layer inside to jointly capture the temporal evolving pattern and structural information in TKGs. To further enhance the model{'}s ability to infer causal associations of facts, we propose a logical judging module, which can guide the model to prioritize learning the most relevant evolving information of logical causal associations in TKGs during the training process. Moreover, we propose a densification strategy based on large language models, through a carefully crafted Chain of Thought prompt, to dig out some knowledge necessary for reasoning about fact associations, thereby making the model perform better. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the superiority of our model over the state-of-the-art baselines."}
{"Title": "Multilingual Contrastive Decoding via Language-Agnostic Layers Skipping", "Abstract": "Decoding by contrasting layers (DoLa), is designed to improve the generation quality of large language models (LLMs) by contrasting the prediction probabilities between an early exit output (amateur logits) and the final output (expert logits).However, we find that this approach does not work well on non-English tasks.Inspired by previous interpretability work on language transition during the model{'}s forward pass, we discover that this issue arises from a language mismatch between early exit output and final output.In this work, we propose an improved contrastive decoding algorithm that is effective for diverse languages beyond English.To obtain more helpful amateur logits, we devise two strategies to skip a set of bottom, language-agnostic layers based on our preliminary analysis.Experimental results on multilingual reasoning benchmarks demonstrate that our proposed method outperforms previous contrastive decoding baselines and substantially improves LLM{'}s chain-of-thought reasoning accuracy across 11 languages."}
{"Title": "The Potential and Challenges of Evaluating Attitudes, Opinions, and Values in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Recent advances in Large Language Models (LLMs) have sparked wide interest in validating and comprehending the human-like cognitive-behavioral traits LLMs may capture and convey. These cognitive-behavioral traits include typically Attitudes, Opinions, Values (AOVs). However, measuring AOVs embedded within LLMs remains opaque, and different evaluation methods may yield different results. This has led to a lack of clarity on how different studies are related to each other and how they can be interpreted. This paper aims to bridge this gap by providing a comprehensive overview of recent works on the evaluation of AOVs in LLMs. Moreover, we survey related approaches in different stages of the evaluation pipeline in these works. By doing so, we address the potential and challenges with respect to understanding the model, human-AI alignment, and downstream application in social sciences. Finally, we provide practical insights into evaluation methods, model enhancement, and interdisciplinary collaboration, thereby contributing to the evolving landscape of evaluating AOVs in LLMs."}
{"Title": "Low-Resource Machine Translation through the Lens of Personalized Federated Learning", "Abstract": "We present a new approach called MeritOpt based on the Personalized Federated Learning algorithm MeritFed that can be applied to Natural Language Tasks with heterogeneous data. We evaluate it on the Low-Resource Machine Translation task, using the datasets of South East Asian and Finno-Ugric languages. In addition to its effectiveness, MeritOpt is also highly interpretable, as it can be applied to track the impact of each language used for training. Our analysis reveals that target dataset size affects weight distribution across auxiliary languages, that unrelated languages do not interfere with the training, and auxiliary optimizer parameters have minimal impact. Our approach is easy to apply with a few lines of code, and we provide scripts for reproducing the experiments (https://github.com/VityaVitalich/MeritOpt)."}
{"Title": "Can Language Models Recognize Convincing Arguments?", "Abstract": "The capabilities of large language models (LLMs) have raised concerns about their potential to create and propagate convincing narratives. Here, we study their performance in detecting convincing arguments to gain insights into LLMs{'} persuasive capabilities without directly engaging in experimentation with humans. We extend a dataset by Durmus and Cardie (2018) with debates, votes, and user traits and propose tasks measuring LLMs{'} ability to (1) distinguish between strong and weak arguments, (2) predict stances based on beliefs and demographic characteristics, and (3) determine the appeal of an argument to an individual based on their traits. We show that LLMs perform on par with humans in these tasks and that combining predictions from different LLMs yields significant performance gains, surpassing human performance. The data and code released with this paper contribute to the crucial effort of continuously evaluating and monitoring LLMs{'} capabilities and potential impact. (https://go.epfl.ch/persuasion-llm)"}
{"Title": "Knowledge Navigator: LLM-guided Browsing Framework for Exploratory Search in Scientific Literature", "Abstract": "The exponential growth of scientific literature necessitates advanced tools for effective knowledge exploration. We present Knowledge Navigator, a system designed to enhance exploratory search abilities by organizing and structuring the retrieved documents from broad topical queries into a navigable, two-level hierarchy of named and descriptive scientific topics and subtopics. This structured organization provides an overall view of the research themes in a domain, while also enabling iterative search and deeper knowledge discovery within specific subtopics by allowing users to refine their focus and retrieve additional relevant documents. Knowledge Navigator combines LLM capabilities with cluster-based methods to enable an effective browsing method. We demonstrate our approach{'}s effectiveness through automatic and manual evaluations on two novel benchmarks, CLUSTREC-COVID and SCITOC Our code, prompts, and benchmarks are made publicly available."}
{"Title": "Scalable and Domain-General Abstractive Proposition Segmentation", "Abstract": "Segmenting text into fine-grained units of meaning is important to a wide range of NLP applications. The default approach of segmenting text into sentences is often insufficient, especially since sentences are usually complex enough to include multiple units of meaning that merit separate treatment in the downstream task. We focus on the task of abstractive proposition segmentation (APS): transforming text into simple, self-contained, well-formed sentences. Several recent works have demonstrated the utility of proposition segmentation with few-shot prompted LLMs for downstream tasks such as retrieval-augmented grounding and fact verification. However, this approach does not scale to large amounts of text and may not always extract all the facts from the input text.In this paper, we first introduce evaluation metrics for the task to measure several dimensions of quality.We then propose a scalable, yet accurate, proposition segmentation model. We model proposition segmentation as a supervised task by training LLMs on existing annotated datasets and show that training yields significantly improved results. We further show that by using the fine-tuned LLMs (Gemini Pro and Gemini Ultra) as teachers for annotating large amounts of multi-domain synthetic distillation data, we can train smaller student models (Gemma 1 2B and 7B) with results similar to the teacher LLMs. We then demonstrate that our technique leads to effective domain generalization, by annotating data in two domains outside the original training data and evaluating on them. Finally, as a key contribution of the paper, we share an easy-to-use API for NLP practitioners to use."}
{"Title": "Hit the Nail on the Head: Parameter-Efficient Multi-task Tuning via Human Language Intervention", "Abstract": "Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (PEFT) on small Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs) has emerged as a promising approach to enhance their multi-tasking capabilities. Prevalent methods simultaneously train additional modules (i.e., one task-shared module and multiple task-specific modules) for adapting PLMs to downstream tasks. However, their adaptability to new tasks is constrained, as the task-specific modules independently adapt to each task, overlooking the potential for knowledge transfer across tasks. In this paper, we propose a novel multi-task learning framework, Inspirational Pointer (IP), that enables the transfer of prior knowledge across tasks through human language intervention. Specifically, we attach task descriptions to the input samples, which are then mapped to corresponding task embeddings. Based on those embeddings, we adapt PLMs for downstream tasks. Similar tasks share akin descriptions, allowing new task samples close to similar trained tasks in the task embedding space, hitting the memory about trained tasks of the model. Our experiments on the T5 model demonstrate performance improvements of our method in multi-task learning and few-shot transfer learning. Further, we implemented the IP in decoder-only models including GPT2 and large language models (LLMs), and the results show that IP enhances the capabilities of decoder-only models."}
{"Title": "LINKED: Eliciting, Filtering and Integrating Knowledge in Large Language Model for Commonsense Reasoning", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) sometimes demonstrate poor performance on knowledge-intensive tasks, commonsense reasoning is one of them. Researchers typically address these issues by retrieving related knowledge from knowledge graphs or employing self-enhancement methods to elicit knowledge in LLMs. However, noisy knowledge and invalid reasoning issues hamper their ability to answer questions accurately. To this end, we propose a novel method named eliciting, filtering and integrating knowledge in large language model (LINKED). In it, we design a reward model to filter out the noisy knowledge and take the marginal consistent reasoning module to reduce invalid reasoning. With our comprehensive experiments on two complex commonsense reasoning benchmarks, our method outperforms SOTA baselines (up to 9.0{\\%} improvement of accuracy). Besides, to measure the positive and negative impact of the injected knowledge, we propose a new metric called effectiveness-preservation score for the knowledge enhancement works. Finally, through extensive experiments, we conduct an in-depth analysis and find many meaningful conclusions about LLMs in commonsense reasoning tasks."}
{"Title": "Beyond Agreement: Diagnosing the Rationale Alignment of Automated Essay Scoring Methods based on Linguistically-informed Counterfactuals", "Abstract": "While current Automated Essay Scoring (AES) methods demonstrate high scoring agreement with human raters, their decision-making mechanisms are not fully understood. Our proposed method, using counterfactual intervention assisted by Large Language Models (LLMs), reveals that BERT-like models primarily focus on sentence-level features, whereas LLMs such as GPT-3.5, GPT-4 and Llama-3 are sensitive to conventions {\\&} accuracy, language complexity, and organization, indicating a more comprehensive rationale alignment with scoring rubrics. Moreover, LLMs can discern counterfactual interventions when giving feedback on essays. Our approach improves understanding of neural AES methods and can also apply to other domains seeking transparency in model-driven decisions."}
{"Title": "TS-Align: A Teacher-Student Collaborative Framework for Scalable Iterative Finetuning of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Mainstream approaches to aligning large language models (LLMs) heavily rely on human preference data, particularly when models require periodic updates. The standard process for iterative alignment of LLMs involves collecting new human feedback for each update. However, the data collection process is costly and challenging to scale. To address this issue, we introduce the {``}TS-Align{''} framework, which fine-tunes a policy model using pairwise feedback data automatically mined from its outputs. This automatic mining process is efficiently accomplished through the collaboration between a large-scale teacher model and a small-scale student model. The policy fine-tuning process can be iteratively repeated using on-policy generations within our proposed teacher-student collaborative framework. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that our final aligned policy outperforms the base policy model with an average win rate of 69.7{\\%} across seven conversational or instruction-following datasets. Furthermore, we show that the ranking capability of the teacher is effectively distilled into the student through our pipeline, resulting in a small-scale yet effective reward model for policy model alignment."}
{"Title": "Datasets for Multilingual Answer Sentence Selection", "Abstract": "Answer Sentence Selection (AS2) is a critical task for designing effective retrieval-based Question Answering (QA) systems. Most advancements in AS2 focus on English due to the scarcity of annotated datasets for other languages. This lack of resources prevents the training of effective AS2 models in different languages, creating a performance gap between QA systems in English and other locales. In this paper, we introduce new high-quality datasets for AS2 in five European languages (French, German, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish), obtained through supervised Automatic Machine Translation (AMT) of existing English AS2 datasets such as ASNQ, WikiQA, and TREC-QA using a Large Language Model (LLM). We evaluated our approach and the quality of the translated datasets through multiple experiments with different Transformer architectures. The results indicate that our datasets are pivotal in producing robust and powerful multilingual AS2 models, significantly contributing to closing the performance gap between English and other languages."}
{"Title": "Active Learning for Abstractive Text Summarization via LLM-Determined Curriculum and Certainty Gain Maximization", "Abstract": "For abstractive text summarization, laborious data annotation and time-consuming model training become two high walls, hindering its further progress. Active Learning, selecting a few informative instances for annotation and model training, sheds light on solving these issues. However, only few active learning-based studies focus on abstractive text summarization and suffer from low stability, effectiveness, and efficiency. To solve the problems, we propose a novel LLM-determined curriculum active learning framework. Firstly, we design a prompt to ask large language models to rate the difficulty of instances, which guides the model to train on from easier to harder instances. Secondly, we design a novel active learning strategy, i.e., Certainty Gain Maximization, enabling to select instances whose distribution aligns well with the overall distribution. Experiments show our method can improve stability, effectiveness, and efficiency of abstractive text summarization backbones."}
{"Title": "Question-guided Knowledge Graph Re-scoring and Injection for Knowledge Graph Question Answering", "Abstract": "Knowledge graph question answering (KGQA) involves answering natural language questions by leveraging structured information stored in a knowledge graph. Typically, KGQA initially retrieve a targeted subgraph from a large-scale knowledge graph, which serves as the basis for reasoning models to address queries. However, the retrieved subgraph inevitably brings distraction information for knowledge utilization, impeding the model{'}s ability to perform accurate reasoning. To address this issue, we propose a Question-guided Knowledge Graph Re-scoring method (Q-KGR) to eliminate noisy pathways for the input question, thereby focusing specifically on pertinent factual knowledge.Moreover, we introduce Knowformer, a parameter-efficient method for injecting the re-scored knowledge graph into large language models to enhance their ability to perform factual reasoning.Extensive experiments on multiple KGQA benchmarks demonstrate the superiority of our method over existing systems."}
{"Title": "Achieving Stronger Generation via Simple Contrastive Tuning", "Abstract": "Instruction tuning is widely used to unlock the abilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) in following human instructions, resulting in substantial performance improvements across various downstream tasks.Furthermore, contrastive decoding methods are employed to enhance instruction-tuned models. To further explore the potential of contrastive decoding, we introduce the Contrastive Tuning and Decoding (CTD) framework, which enhances model performance without requiring additional data or significant computational resources.When performing Contrastive Tuning, we optimize a correction model by targeting discrepancies between the original outputs and labels. During Contrastive Decoding, the correction model adjusts the logits of the SFT model using the same input to ensure better adherence to instructions.With the lightweight CTD framework, we refine the behavior of instruction-tuned models, improving their performance on the challenging SUPNATINST dataset with unfamiliar data distributions across various models and prompt formats."}
{"Title": "Forecasting Future International Events: A Reliable Dataset for Text-Based Event Modeling", "Abstract": "Predicting future international events from textual information, such as news articles, has tremendous potential for applications in global policy, strategic decision-making, and geopolitics. However, existing datasets available for this task are often limited in quality, hindering the progress of related research. In this paper, we introduce a novel dataset designed to address these limitations by leveraging the advanced reasoning capabilities of large-language models (LLMs). Our dataset features high-quality scoring labels generated through advanced prompt modeling and rigorously validated by domain experts in political science. We showcase the quality and utility of our dataset for real-world event prediction tasks, demonstrating its effectiveness through extensive experiments and analysis. Furthermore, we publicly release our dataset along with the full automation source code for data collection, labeling, and benchmarking, aiming to support and advance research in text-based event prediction."}
{"Title": "QPaug: Question and Passage Augmentation for Open-Domain Question Answering of LLMs", "Abstract": "Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has received much attention for Open-domain question-answering (ODQA) tasks as a means to compensate for the parametric knowledge of large language models (LLMs). While previous approaches focused on processing retrieved passages to remove irrelevant context, they still rely heavily on the quality of retrieved passages which can degrade if the question is ambiguous or complex. In this paper, we propose a simple yet efficient method called question and passage augmentation (QPaug) via LLMs for open-domain QA. QPaug first decomposes the original questions into multiple-step sub-questions. By augmenting the original question with detailed sub-questions and planning, we are able to make the query more specific on what needs to be retrieved, improving the retrieval performance. In addition, to compensate for the case where the retrieved passages contain distracting information or divided opinions, we augment the retrieved passages with self-generated passages by LLMs to guide the answer extraction. Experimental results show that QPaug outperforms the previous state-of-the-art and achieves significant performance gain over existing RAG methods."}
{"Title": "ICON: Improving Inter-Report Consistency in Radiology Report Generation via Lesion-aware Mixup Augmentation", "Abstract": "Previous research on radiology report generation has made significant progress in terms of increasing the clinical accuracy of generated reports. In this paper, we emphasize another crucial quality that it should possess, i.e., inter-report consistency, which refers to the capability of generating consistent reports for semantically equivalent radiographs. This quality is even of greater significance than the overall report accuracy in terms of ensuring the system{'}s credibility, as a system prone to providing conflicting results would severely erode users{'} trust. Regrettably, existing approaches struggle to maintain inter-report consistency, exhibiting biases towards common patterns and susceptibility to lesion variants. To address this issue, we propose ICON, which improves the inter-report consistency of radiology report generation. Aiming to enhance the system{'}s ability to capture similarities in semantically equivalent lesions, our approach first involves extracting lesions from input images and examining their characteristics. Then, we introduce a lesion-aware mixup technique to ensure that the representations of the semantically equivalent lesions align with the same attributes, achieved through a linear combination during the training phase. Extensive experiments on three publicly available chest X-ray datasets verify the effectiveness of our approach, both in terms of improving the consistency and accuracy of the generated reports."}
{"Title": "DiaHalu: A Dialogue-level Hallucination Evaluation Benchmark for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Though large language models (LLMs) achieve significant success in recent years, the hallucination issue remains a challenge, and numerous benchmarks are proposed for hallucination detection. Nevertheless, some of these benchmarks are not naturally generated by LLMs but are intentionally induced. Also, many merely focus on the factuality hallucination while ignoring the faithfulness hallucination. Additionally, although dialogue pattern is more widely utilized in the era of LLMs, current benchmarks only concentrate on sentence-level and passage-level hallucination. In this study, we propose DiaHalu, the first dedicated dialogue-level hallucination evaluation benchmark for LLMs to our knowledge. Initially, we integrate the collected topics into system prompts and facilitate a dialogue between two LLMs. Subsequently, we manually modify the contents that do not adhere to human language conventions and then have LLMs re-generate, simulating authentic human-machine interaction scenarios. Finally, professional scholars annotate all the samples in the dataset. DiaHalu covers four common multi-turn dialogue domains and five hallucination subtypes, extended from factuality and faithfulness hallucination. Experiments through some well-known LLMs and detection methods on the dataset show that DiaHalu is a challenging benchmark, holding significant value for further research."}
{"Title": "ExpertEase: A Multi-Agent Framework for Grade-Specific Document Simplification with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Text simplification is crucial for making texts more accessible, yet current research primarily focuses on sentence-level simplification, neglecting document-level simplification and the different reading levels of target audiences. To bridge these gaps, we introduce ExpertEase, a multi-agent framework for grade-specific document simplification using Large Language Models (LLMs). ExpertEase simulates real-world text simplification by introducing expert, teacher, and student agents that cooperate on the task and rely on external tools for calibration. Experiments demonstrate that this multi-agent approach significantly enhances LLMs{'} ability to simplify reading materials for diverse audiences. Furthermore, we evaluate the performance of LLMs varying in size and type, and compare LLM-generated texts with human-authored ones, highlighting their potential in educational resource development and guiding future research."}
{"Title": "Class Name Guided Out-of-Scope Intent Classification", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Inference-Time Decontamination: Reusing Leaked Benchmarks for Large Language Model Evaluation", "Abstract": "The training process of large language models (LLMs) often involves varying degrees of test data contamination. Although current LLMs are achieving increasingly better performance on various benchmarks, their performance in practical applications does not always match their benchmark results. Leakage of benchmarks can prevent the accurate assessment of LLMs{'} true performance. However, constructing new benchmarks is costly, labor-intensive and still carries the risk of leakage. Therefore, in this paper, we ask the question Can we reuse these leaked benchmarks for LLM evaluation? We propose Inference-Time Decontamination (ITD) to address this issue by detecting and rewriting leaked samples without altering their difficulties. ITD can mitigate performance inflation caused by memorizing leaked benchmarks. Our proof-of-concept experiments demonstrate that ITD reduces inflated accuracy by 22.9{\\%} on GSM8K and 19.0{\\%} on MMLU. On MMLU, using Inference-time Decontamination can lead to a decrease in the results of Phi3 and Mistral by 6.7{\\%} and 3.6{\\%} respectively. We hope that ITD can provide more truthful evaluation results for large language models."}
{"Title": "MultiVerse: Efficient and Expressive Zero-Shot Multi-Task Text-to-Speech", "Abstract": "Text-to-speech (TTS) systems that scale up the amount of training data have achieved significant improvements in zero-shot speech synthesis. However, these systems have certain limitations: they require a large amount of training data, which increases costs, and often overlook prosody similarity. To address these issues, we propose MultiVerse, a zero-shot multi-task TTS system that is able to perform TTS or speech style transfer in zero-shot and cross-lingual conditions. MultiVerse requires much less training data than traditional data-driven approaches. To ensure zero-shot performance even with limited data, we leverage source-filter theory-based disentanglement, utilizing the prompt for modeling filter-related and source-related representations. Additionally, to further enhance prosody similarity, we adopt a prosody modeling approach combining prompt-based autoregressive and non-autoregressive methods. Evaluations demonstrate the remarkable zero-shot multi-task TTS performance of MultiVerse and show that MultiVerse not only achieves zero-shot TTS performance comparable to data-driven TTS systems with much less data, but also significantly outperforms other zero-shot TTS systems trained with the same small amount of data. In particular, our novel prosody modeling technique significantly contributes to MultiVerse{'}s ability to generate speech with high prosody similarity to the given prompts."}
{"Title": "RoBERT2VecTM: A Novel Approach for Topic Extraction in Islamic Studies", "Abstract": "Investigating {``}Hadith{''} texts, crucial for theological studies and Islamic jurisprudence, presents challenges due to the linguistic complexity of Arabic, such as its complex morphology. In this paper, we propose an innovative approach to address the challenges of topic modeling in Hadith studies by utilizing the Contextualized Topic Model (CTM). Our study introduces RoBERT2VecTM, a novel neural-based approach that combines the RoBERTa transformer model with Doc2Vec, specifically targeting the semantic analysis of {``}Matn{''} (the actual content). The methodology outperforms many traditional state-of-the-art NLP models by generating more coherent and diverse Arabic topics. The diversity of the generated topics allows for further categorization, deepening the understanding of discussed concepts. Notably, our research highlights the critical impact of lemmatization and stopwords in enhancing topic modeling. This breakthrough marks a significant stride in applying NLP to non-Latin languages and opens new avenues for the nuanced analysis of complex religious texts."}
{"Title": "Are ELECTRA's Sentence Embeddings Beyond Repair? The Case of Semantic Textual Similarity", "Abstract": "While BERT produces high-quality sentence embeddings, its pre-training computational cost is a significant drawback. In contrast, ELECTRA provides a cost-effective pre-training objective and downstream task performance improvements, but worse sentence embeddings. The community tacitly stopped utilizing ELECTRA{'}s sentence embeddings for semantic textual similarity (STS). We notice a significant drop in performance for the ELECTRA discriminator{'}s last layer in comparison to prior layers. We explore this drop and propose a way to repair the embeddings using a novel truncated model fine-tuning (TMFT) method. TMFT improves the Spearman correlation coefficient by over 8 points while increasing parameter efficiency on the STS Benchmark. We extend our analysis to various model sizes, languages, and two other tasks. Further, we discover the surprising efficacy of ELECTRA{'}s generator model, which performs on par with BERT, using significantly fewer parameters and a substantially smaller embedding size. Finally, we observe boosts by combining TMFT with word similarity or domain adaptive pre-training."}
{"Title": "DetectiveNN: Imitating Human Emotional Reasoning with a Recall-Detect-Predict Framework for Emotion Recognition in Conversations", "Abstract": "Emotion Recognition in conversations (ERC) involves an internal cognitive process that interprets emotional cues by using a collection of past emotional experiences. However, many existing methods struggle to decipher emotional cues in dialogues since they are insufficient in understanding the rich historical emotional context. In this work, we introduce an innovative Detective Network (DetectiveNN), a novel model that is grounded in the cognitive theory of emotion and utilizes a {``}recall-detect-predict{''} framework to imitate human emotional reasoning. This process begins by {`}recalling{'} past interactions of a specific speaker to collect emotional cues. It then {`}detects{'} relevant emotional patterns by interpreting these cues in the context of the ongoing conversation. Finally, it {`}predicts{'} the speaker{'}s current emotional state. Tested on three benchmark datasets, our approach significantly outperforms existing methods. This highlights the advantages of incorporating cognitive factors into deep learning for ERC, enhancing task efficacy and prediction accuracy."}
{"Title": "HyperBERT: Mixing Hypergraph-Aware Layers with Language Models for Node Classification on Text-Attributed Hypergraphs", "Abstract": "Hypergraphs are characterized by complex topological structure, representing higher-order interactions among multiple entities through hyperedges. Lately, hypergraph-based deep learning methods to learn informative data representations for the problem of node classification on text-attributed hypergraphs have garnered increasing research attention. However, existing methods struggle to simultaneously capture the full extent of hypergraph structural information and the rich linguistic attributes inherent in the nodes attributes, which largely hampers their effectiveness and generalizability. To overcome these challenges, we explore ways to further augment a pretrained BERT model with specialized hypergraph-aware layers for the task of node classification. Such layers introduce higher-order structural inductive bias into the language model, thus improving the model{'}s capacity to harness both higher-order context information from the hypergraph structure and semantic information present in text. In this paper, we propose a new architecture, HyperBERT, a mixed text-hypergraph model which simultaneously models hypergraph relational structure while maintaining the high-quality text encoding capabilities of a pre-trained BERT. Notably, HyperBERT presents results that achieve a new state-of-the-art on five challenging text-attributed hypergraph node classification benchmarks."}
{"Title": "On Diversified Preferences of Large Language Model Alignment", "Abstract": "Aligning large language models (LLMs) with human preferences has been recognized as the key to improving LLMs{'} interaction quality. However, in this pluralistic world, human preferences can be diversified due to annotators{'} different tastes, which hinders the effectiveness of LLM alignment methods. This paper presents the first quantitative analysis of the experimental scaling law for reward models with varying sizes, from 1.3 billion to 7 billion parameters, trained with human feedback exhibiting diverse preferences. Our analysis reveals that the impact of diversified human preferences depends on both model size and data size. Larger models with sufficient capacity mitigate the negative effects of diverse preferences, while smaller models struggle to accommodate them. To mitigate the impact of diverse preferences, we introduce a new metric, Expected Calibration Error (ECE), to evaluate RMs and show their obvious positive correlation with the alignment performance of LLMs. Furthermore, we propose a Multi-Objective Reward learning method (MORE) to enhance the calibration performance of RMs on shared preferences. Through experiments on four models and five human preference datasets, we find the calibration error can be adopted as a key metric for evaluating RMs and MORE can obtain superior alignment performance."}
{"Title": "LoRAExit: Empowering Dynamic Modulation of LLMs in Resource-limited Settings using Low-rank Adapters", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have exhibited remarkable performance across various natural language processing tasks. However, deploying LLMs on resource-limited settings remains a challenge. While early-exit techniques offer an effective approach, they often require compromised training methods that result in sub-optimal performance. On the other hand, multi-model methods achieve improved results but suffer from significant inference latency and memory consumption. In this paper, we propose LoRAExit, a novel dynamic inference architecture that leverages low-rank adaptors for efficient deployment of LLMs. LoRAExit decouples the training of multiple exit interfaces, enabling the separate optimization of each exit, thereby fundamentally addressing the performance issues of early-exit networks. Moreover, we introduce a superior-exit guided distillation method that effectively utilizes models of different sizes, thereby further enhancing the performance of early exits. Experimental results demonstrate that LoRAExit significantly improves LLM performance when deployed on resource-limited settings."}
{"Title": "Improving Diversity of Commonsense Generation by Large Language Models via In-Context Learning", "Abstract": "Generative Commonsense Reasoning (GCR) requires a model to reason about a situation using commonsense knowledge, while generating coherent sentences. Although the quality of the generated sentences is crucial, the diversity of the generation is equally important because it reflects the model{'}s ability to use a range of commonsense knowledge facts. Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown proficiency in enhancing the generation quality across various tasks through in-context learning (ICL) using given examples without the need for any fine-tuning. However, the diversity aspect in LLM outputs has not been systematically studied before. To address this, we propose a simple method that diversifies the LLM generations, while preserving their quality. Experimental results on three benchmark GCR datasets show that our method achieves an ideal balance between the quality and diversity. Moreover, the sentences generated by our proposed method can be used as training data to improve diversity in existing commonsense generators."}
{"Title": "CodeIP: A Grammar-Guided Multi-Bit Watermark for Large Language Models of Code", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable progress in code generation. It now becomes crucial to identify whether the code is AI-generated and to determine the specific model used, particularly for purposes such as protecting Intellectual Property (IP) in industry and preventing cheating in programming exercises. To this end, several attempts have been made to insert watermarks into machine-generated code. However, existing approaches are limited to inserting only a single bit of information. In this paper, we introduce CodeIP, a novel multi-bit watermarking technique that embeds additional information to preserve crucial provenance details, such as the vendor ID of an LLM, thereby safeguarding the IPs of LLMs in code generation. Furthermore, to ensure the syntactical correctness of the generated code, we propose constraining the sampling process for predicting the next token by training a type predictor. Experiments conducted on a real-world dataset across five programming languages demonstrate the effectiveness of CodeIP in watermarking LLMs for code generation while maintaining the syntactical correctness of code."}
{"Title": "StablePT : Towards Stable Prompting for Few-shot Learning via Input Separation", "Abstract": "Large language models have shown their ability to become effective few-shot learners with prompting, revoluting the paradigm of learning with data scarcity. However, this approach largely depends on the quality of prompt initialization and always exhibits large variability among different runs. Such property makes prompt tuning highly unreliable and vulnerable to poorly constructed prompts, which limits its extension to more real-world applications. To tackle this issue, we propose to treat the hard prompt and soft prompt as separate inputs to mitigate noise brought by the prompt initialization. Furthermore, we optimize soft prompts with contrastive learning for utilizing class-aware information in the training process to maintain model performance. Experimental results demonstrate that StablePT outperforms state-of-the-art methods by 6.97{\\%} in accuracy and reduces the standard deviation by 1.92 on average. Furthermore, extensive experiments underscore its robustness and stability across 8 datasets covering various tasks."}
{"Title": "Natural Evolution-based Dual-Level Aggregation for Temporal Knowledge Graph Reasoning", "Abstract": "Temporal knowledge graph (TKG) reasoning aims to predict missing facts based on a given history. Most of the existing methods unifiedly model the evolution process of different events and ignore their inherent asynchronous characteristics, resulting in suboptimal performance. To tackle this challenge, we propose a Natural Evolution-based Dual-level Aggregation framework (NEDA) for TKG reasoning. Specifically, we design a natural division strategy to group TKGs into different patches according to the occurrence of a given target entity. Then, we present a dual-level aggregation scheme to extract local representations from information within patches and then aggregate these representations with adaptive weights as the final entity representations. By assigning varying weights to different patches, this aggregation scheme can incorporate the asynchronous characteristics of event evolution for representation computation, thus enhancing prediction performance. Extensive experiments demonstrate the significant improvement of our proposed model."}
{"Title": "Creative and Context-Aware Translation of East Asian Idioms with GPT-4", "Abstract": "As a type of figurative language, an East Asian idiom condenses rich cultural background into only a few characters. Translating such idioms is challenging for human translators, who often resort to choosing a context-aware translation from an existing list of candidates. However, compiling a dictionary of candidate translations demands much time and creativity even for expert translators. To alleviate such burden, we evaluate if GPT-4 can help generate high-quality translations. Based on automatic evaluations of faithfulness and creativity, we first identify Pareto-optimal prompting strategies that can outperform translation engines from Google and DeepL. Then, at a low cost, our context-aware translations can achieve far more high-quality translations per idiom than the human baseline. We open-source all code and data to facilitate further research."}
{"Title": "Towards Implicit Bias Detection and Mitigation in Multi-Agent LLM Interactions", "Abstract": "As Large Language Models (LLMs) continue to evolve, they are increasingly being employed in numerous studies to simulate societies and execute diverse social tasks. However, LLMs are susceptible to societal biases due to their exposure to human-generated data. Given that LLMs are being used to gain insights into various societal aspects, it is essential to mitigate these biases. To that end, our study investigates the presence of implicit gender biases in multi-agent LLM interactions and proposes two strategies to mitigate these biases. We begin by creating a dataset of scenarios where implicit gender biases might arise, and subsequently develop a metric to assess the presence of biases. Our empirical analysis reveals that LLMs generate outputs characterized by strong implicit bias associations ($\\geq \\approx 50\\%$ of the time). Furthermore, these biases tend to escalate following multi-agent interactions. To mitigate them, we propose two strategies: self-reflection with in-context examples (ICE); and supervised fine-tuning. Our research demonstrates that both methods effectively mitigate implicit biases, with the ensemble of fine-tuning and self-reflection proving to be the most successful."}
{"Title": "Exploring Hint Generation Approaches for Open-Domain Question Answering", "Abstract": "Automatic Question Answering (QA) systems rely on contextual information to provide accurate answers. Commonly, contexts are prepared through either retrieval-based or generation-based methods. The former involves retrieving relevant documents from a corpus like Wikipedia, whereas the latter uses generative models such as Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate the context. In this paper, we introduce a novel context preparation approach called HINTQA, which employs Automatic Hint Generation (HG) techniques. Unlike traditional methods, HINTQA prompts LLMs to produce hints about potential answers for the question rather than generating relevant context. We evaluate our approach across three QA datasets including TriviaQA, Natural Questions, and Web Questions, examining how the number and order of hints impact performance. Our findings show that the HINTQA surpasses both retrieval-based and generation-based approaches. We demonstrate that hints enhance the accuracy of answers more than retrieved and generated contexts."}
{"Title": "Do LLMs Think Fast and Slow? A Causal Study on Sentiment Analysis", "Abstract": "Sentiment analysis (SA) aims to identify the sentiment expressed in a piece of text, often in the form of a review. Assuming a review and the sentiment associated with it, in this paper we formulate SA as a combination of two tasks: (1) a causal discovery task that distinguishes whether a review {``}primes{''} the sentiment (Causal Hypothesis C1), or the sentiment {``}primes{''} the review (Causal Hypothesis C2); and (2) the traditional prediction task to model the sentiment using the review as input. Using the peak-end rule in psychology, we classify a sample as C1 if its overall sentiment score approximates an average of all the sentence-level sentiments in the review, and as C2 if the overall sentiment score approximates an average of the peak and end sentiments. For the prediction task, we use the discovered causal mechanisms behind the samples to improve the performance of LLMs by proposing causal prompts that give the models an inductive bias of the underlying causal graph, leading to substantial improvements by up to 32.13 F1 points on zero-shot five-class SA."}
{"Title": "PEDANTS: Cheap but Effective and Interpretable Answer Equivalence", "Abstract": "Question answering (QA) can only make progress if we know if an answer is correct, but current answer correctness (AC) metrics struggle with verbose, free-form answers from large language models (LLMs). There are two challenges with current short-form QA evaluations: a lack of diverse styles of evaluation data and an over-reliance on expensive and slow LLMs. LLM-based scorers correlate better with humans, but this expensive task has only been tested on limited QA datasets. We rectify these issues by providing rubrics and datasets for evaluating machine QA adopted from the Trivia community. We also propose an efficient, and interpretable QA evaluation that is more stable than an exact match and neural methods (BERTScore)."}
{"Title": "AgentsCourt: Building Judicial Decision-Making Agents with Court Debate Simulation and Legal Knowledge Augmentation", "Abstract": "With the development of deep learning, natural language processing technology has effectively improved the efficiency of various aspects of the traditional judicial industry. However, most current efforts focus on tasks within individual judicial stages, making it difficult to handle complex tasks that span multiple stages. As the autonomous agents powered by large language models are becoming increasingly smart and able to make complex decisions in real-world settings, offering new insights for judicial intelligence. In this paper, (1) we propose a novel multi-agent framework, AgentsCourt, for judicial decision-making. Our framework follows the classic court trial process, consisting of court debate simulation, legal resources retrieval and decision-making refinement to simulate the decision-making of judge. (2) we introduce SimuCourt, a judicial benchmark that encompasses 420 Chinese judgment documents, spanning the three most common types of judicial cases. Furthermore, to support this task, we construct a large-scale legal knowledge base, Legal-KB, with multi-resource legal knowledge. (3) Extensive experiments show that our framework outperforms the existing advanced methods in various aspects, especially in generating legal articles, where our model achieves significant improvements of 8.6{\\%} and 9.1{\\%} F1 score in the first and second instance settings, respectively."}
{"Title": "Editing the Mind of Giants: An In-Depth Exploration of Pitfalls of Knowledge Editing in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Knowledge editing is a rising technique for efficiently updating factual knowledge in large language models (LLMs) with minimal alteration of parameters. However, recent studies have identified side effects, such as knowledge distortion and the deterioration of general abilities, that have emerged after editing. Despite these findings, evaluating the pitfalls of knowledge editing often relies on inconsistent metrics and benchmarks, lacking a uniform standard. In response, this survey presents a comprehensive study of these side effects, providing a unified perspective on the challenges of knowledge editing in LLMs by conducting experiments with consistent metrics and benchmarks. Additionally, we review related works and outline potential research directions to address these limitations. Our survey highlights the limitations of current knowledge editing methods, emphasizing the need for a deeper understanding of the inner knowledge structures of LLMs and improved knowledge editing methods. To foster future research, we have released the complementary materials publicly (https://github.com/MiuLab/EditLLM-Survey)."}
{"Title": "Improving LLM Attributions with Randomized Path-Integration", "Abstract": "We present Randomized Path-Integration (RPI) - a path-integration method for explaining language models via randomization of the integration path over the attention information in the model. RPI employs integration on internal attention scores and their gradients along a randomized path, which is dynamically established between a baseline representation and the attention scores of the model. The inherent randomness in the integration path originates from modeling the baseline representation as a randomly drawn tensor from a Gaussian diffusion process. As a consequence, RPI generates diverse baselines, yielding a set of candidate attribution maps. This set facilitates the selection of the most effective attribution map based on the specific metric at hand. We present an extensive evaluation, encompassing 11 explanation methods and 5 language models, including the Llama2 and Mistral models. Our results demonstrate that RPI outperforms latest state-of-the-art methods across 4 datasets and 5 evaluation metrics."}
{"Title": "VeriScore: Evaluating the factuality of verifiable claims in long-form text generation", "Abstract": "Existing metrics for evaluating the factuality of long-form text, such as FACTSCORE (Min et al., 2023) and SAFE (Wei et al., 2024), decompose an input text into {``}atomic claims{''} and verify each against a knowledge base like Wikipedia. These metrics are not suitable for most generation tasks because they assume that every claim is verifiable (i.e., can plausibly be proven true or false). We address this issue with VERISCORE,1 a metric for evaluating factuality in diverse long-form generation tasks that contain both verifiable and unverifiable content. VERISCORE can be effectively implemented with either closed or fine-tuned open-weight language models. Human evaluation confirms that VERISCORE{'}s extracted claims are more sensible than those from competing methods across eight different long-form tasks. We use VERISCORE to evaluate generations from 16 different models across multiple long-form tasks and find that while GPT-4o is the best-performing model overall, open-weight models such as Mixtral-8{\\mbox{$\\times$}}22 are closing the gap. We show that an LM{'}s VERISCORE on one task (e.g., biography generation) does not necessarily correlate to its VERISCORE on a different task (e.g., long-form QA), highlighting the need for expanding factuality evaluation across tasks with varying fact density."}
{"Title": "Instruct, Not Assist: LLM-based Multi-Turn Planning and Hierarchical Questioning for Socratic Code Debugging", "Abstract": "Socratic questioning is an effective teaching strategy, encouraging critical thinking and problem-solving. The conversational capabilities of large language models (LLMs) show great potential for providing scalable, real-time student guidance. However, current LLMs often give away solutions directly, making them ineffective instructors. We tackle this issue in the code debugging domain with TreeInstruct, an Instructor agent guided by a novel state space-based planning algorithm. TreeInstruct asks probing questions to help students independently identify and resolve errors. It estimates a student{'}s conceptual and syntactical knowledge to dynamically construct a question tree based on their responses and current knowledge state, effectively addressing both independent and dependent mistakes concurrently in a multi-turn interaction setting. In addition to using an existing single-bug debugging benchmark, we construct a more challenging multi-bug dataset of 150 coding problems, incorrect solutions, and bug fixes{--} all carefully constructed and annotated by experts. Extensive evaluation shows TreeInstruct{'}s state-of-the-art performance on both datasets, proving it to be a more effective instructor than baselines. Furthermore, a real-world case study with five students of varying skill levels further demonstrates TreeInstruct{'}s ability to guide students to debug their code efficiently with minimal turns and highly Socratic questioning."}
{"Title": "Tutor-ICL: Guiding Large Language Models for Improved In-Context Learning Performance", "Abstract": "There has been a growing body of work focusing on the in-context learning (ICL) abilities of large language models (LLMs). However, it is an open question how effective ICL can be. This paper presents Tutor-ICL, a simple prompting method for classification tasks inspired by how effective instructors might engage their students in learning a task. Specifically, we propose presenting exemplar answers in a *comparative format* rather than the traditional single-answer format. We also show that including the test instance before the exemplars can improve performance, making it easier for LLMs to focus on relevant exemplars. Lastly, we include a summarization step before attempting the test, following a common human practice. Experiments on various classification tasks, conducted across both decoder-only LLMs (Llama 2, 3) and encoder-decoder LLMs (Flan-T5-XL, XXL), show that Tutor-ICL consistently boosts performance, achieving up to a 13.76{\\%} increase in accuracy."}
{"Title": "Taking a turn for the better: Conversation redirection throughout the course of mental-health therapy", "Abstract": "Mental-health therapy involves a complex conversation flow in which patients and therapists continuously negotiate what should be talked about next. For example, therapists might try to shift the conversation{'}s direction to keep the therapeutic process on track and avoid stagnation, or patients might push the discussion towards issues they want to focus on.How do such patient and therapist redirections relate to the development and quality of their relationship? To answer this question, we introduce a probabilistic measure of the extent to which a certain utterance immediately redirects the flow of the conversation, accounting for both the intention and the actual realization of such a change. We apply this new measure to characterize the development of patient- therapist relationships over multiple sessions in a very large, widely-used online therapy platform. Our analysis reveals that (1) patient control of the conversation{'}s direction generally increases relative to that of the therapist as their relationship progresses; and (2) patients who have less control in the first few sessions are significantly more likely to eventually express dissatisfaction with their therapist and terminate the relationship."}
{"Title": "LLM Explainability via Attributive Masking Learning", "Abstract": "In this paper, we introduce Attributive Masking Learning (AML), a method designed for explaining language model predictions by learning input masks. AML trains an attribution model to identify influential tokens in the input for a given language model{'}s prediction. The central concept of AML is to train an auxiliary attribution model to simultaneously 1) mask as much input data as possible while ensuring that the language model{'}s prediction closely aligns with its prediction on the original input, and 2) ensure a significant change in the model{'}s prediction when applying the inverse (complement) of the same mask to the input. This dual-masking approach further enables the optimization of the explanation w.r.t. the metric of interest. We demonstrate the effectiveness of AML on both encoder-based and decoder-based language models, showcasing its superiority over a variety of state-of-the-art explanation methods on multiple benchmarks."}
{"Title": "How Entangled is Factuality and Deception in German?", "Abstract": "The statement {``}The earth is flat{''} is factually inaccurate, but if someone truly believes and argues in its favor, it is not deceptive. Research on deception detection and fact checking often conflates factual accuracy with the truthfulness of statements. This assumption makes it difficult to (a) study subtle distinctions and interactions between the two and (b) gauge their effects on downstream tasks. The belief-based deception framework disentangles these properties by defining texts as deceptive when there is a mismatch between what people say and what they truly believe. In this study, we assess if presumed patterns of deception generalize to German language texts. We test the effectiveness of computational models in detecting deception using an established corpus of belief-based argumentation. Finally, we gauge the impact of deception on the downstream task of fact checking and explore if this property confounds verification models. Surprisingly, our analysis finds no correlation with established cues of deception. Previous work claimed that computational models can outperform humans in deception detection accuracy, however, our experiments show that both traditional and state-of-the-art models struggle with the task, performing no better than random guessing. For fact checking, we find that natural language inference-based verification performs worse on non-factual and deceptive content, while prompting large language models for the same task is less sensitive to these properties."}
{"Title": "Train Once, Use Flexibly: A Modular Framework for Multi-Aspect Neural News Recommendation", "Abstract": "Recent neural news recommenders (NNRs) extend content-based recommendation (1) by aligning additional aspects (e.g., topic, sentiment) between candidate news and user history or (2) by diversifying recommendations w.r.t. these aspects. This customization is achieved by {''}hardcoding{''} additional constraints into the NNR{'}s architecture and/or training objectives: any change in the desired recommendation behavior thus requires retraining the model with a modified objective. This impedes widespread adoption of multi-aspect news recommenders. In this work, we introduce MANNeR, a modular framework for multi-aspect neural news recommendation that supports on-the-fly customization over individual aspects at inference time. With metric-based learning as its backbone, MANNeR learns aspect-specialized news encoders and then flexibly and linearly combines the resulting aspect-specific similarity scores into different ranking functions, alleviating the need for ranking function-specific retraining of the model. Extensive experimental results show that MANNeR consistently outperforms state-of-the-art NNRs on both standard content-based recommendation and single- and multi-aspect customization. Lastly, we validate that MANNeR{'}s aspect-customization module is robust to language and domain transfer."}
{"Title": "A LLM-based Ranking Method for the Evaluation of Automatic Counter-Narrative Generation", "Abstract": "This paper proposes a novel approach to evaluate Counter Narrative (CN) generation using a Large Language Model (LLM) as an evaluator. We show that traditional automatic metrics correlate poorly with human judgements and fail to capture the nuanced relationship between generated CNs and human perception. To alleviate this, we introduce a model ranking pipeline based on pairwise comparisons of generated CNs from different models, organized in a tournament-style format. The proposed evaluation method achieves a high correlation with human preference, with a \u00cf\u0081 score of 0.88. As an additional contribution, we leverage LLMs as zero-shot CN generators and provide a comparative analysis of chat, instruct, and base models, exploring their respective strengths and limitations. Through meticulous evaluation, including fine-tuning experiments, we elucidate the differences in performance and responsiveness to domain-specific data. We conclude that chat-aligned models in zero-shot are the best option for carrying out the task, provided they do not refuse to generate an answer due to security concerns."}
{"Title": "A Survey on Open Information Extraction from Rule-based Model to Large Language Model", "Abstract": "Open Information Extraction (OpenIE) represents a crucial NLP task aimed at deriving structured information from unstructured text, unrestricted by relation type or domain. This survey paper provides an overview of OpenIE technologies spanning from 2007 to 2024, emphasizing a chronological perspective absent in prior surveys. It examines the evolution of task settings in OpenIE to align with the advances in recent technologies. The paper categorizes OpenIE approaches into rule-based, neural, and pre-trained large language models, discussing each within a chronological framework. Additionally, it highlights prevalent datasets and evaluation metrics currently in use. Building on this extensive review, this paper systematically reviews the evolution of task settings, data, evaluation metrics, and methodologies in the era of large language models, highlighting their mutual influence, comparing their capabilities, and examining their implications for open challenges and future research directions."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Tool Retrieval with Iterative Feedback from Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Tool learning aims to enhance and expand large language models{'} (LLMs) capabilities with external tools, which has gained significant attention recently. Current methods have shown that LLMs can effectively handle a certain amount of tools through in-context learning or fine-tuning. However, in real-world scenarios, the number of tools is typically extensive and irregularly updated, emphasizing the necessity for a dedicated tool retrieval component. Tool retrieval is nontrivial due to the following challenges: 1) complex user instructions and tool descriptions; 2) misalignment between tool retrieval and tool usage models. To address the above issues, we propose to enhance tool retrieval with iterative feedback from the large language model. Specifically, we prompt the tool usage model, i.e., the LLM, to provide feedback for the tool retriever model in multi-round, which could progressively improve the tool retriever{'}s understanding of instructions and tools and reduce the gap between the two standalone components. We build a unified and comprehensive benchmark to evaluate tool retrieval models. The extensive experiments indicate that our proposed approach achieves advanced performance in both in-domain evaluation and out-of-domain evaluation."}
{"Title": "Detecting Temporal Ambiguity in Questions", "Abstract": "Detecting and answering ambiguous questions has been a challenging task in open-domain question answering. Ambiguous questions have different answers depending on their interpretation and can take diverse forms. Temporally ambiguous questions are one of the most common types of such questions. In this paper, we introduce TEMPAMBIQA, a manually annotated temporally ambiguous QA dataset consisting of 8,162 open-domain questions derived from existing datasets. Our annotations focus on capturing temporal ambiguity to study the task of detecting temporally ambiguous questions. We propose a novel approach by using diverse search strategies based on disambiguate versions of the questions. We also introduce and test non-search, competitive baselines for detecting temporal ambiguity using zero-shot and few-shot approaches."}
{"Title": "LaMDA: Large Model Fine-Tuning via Spectrally Decomposed Low-Dimensional Adaptation", "Abstract": "Low-rank adaptation (LoRA) has become the default approach to fine-tune large language models (LLMs) due to its significant reduction in trainable parameters. However, trainable parameter demand for LoRA increases with increasing model embedding dimensions, leading to high compute costs. Additionally, its backward updates require storing high-dimensional intermediate activations and optimizer states, demanding high peak GPU memory. In this paper, we introduce {\\_}LaMDA{\\_}, a novel approach to fine-tuning large language models, which leverages low-dimensional adaptation to achieve significant reductions in trainable parameters and peak GPU memory footprint. LaMDA freezes a first projection matrix (PMA) in the adaptation path while introducing a low-dimensional trainable square matrix, resulting in substantial reductions in trainable parameters and peak GPU memory usage. LaMDA gradually freezes a second projection matrix (PMB) during the early fine-tuning stages, reducing the compute cost associated with weight updates to enhance parameter efficiency further.We also present an enhancement, LaMDA++, incorporating a {``}lite-weight{''} adaptive rank allocation for the LoRA path via normalized spectrum analysis of pre-trained model weights. We evaluate LaMDA/LaMDA++ across various tasks, including natural language understanding with the GLUE benchmark, text summarization, natural language generation, and complex reasoning on different LLMs.Results show that LaMDA matches or surpasses the performance of existing alternatives while requiring up to **17.7$\\times$** fewer parameter updates and up to **1.32$\\times$** lower peak GPU memory usage during fine-tuning. Code will be publicly available at https://github.com/ArminAzizi98/LaMDA."}
{"Title": "Machine Translation Hallucination Detection for Low and High Resource Languages using Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in massively multilingual machine translation systems have significantly enhanced translation accuracy; however, even the best performing systems still generate hallucinations, severely impacting user trust. Detecting hallucinations in Machine Translation (MT) remains a critical challenge, particularly since existing methods excel with High-Resource Languages (HRLs) but exhibit substantial limitations when applied to Low-Resource Languages (LRLs). This paper evaluates sentence-level hallucination detection approaches using Large Language Models (LLMs) and semantic similarity within massively multilingual embeddings. Our study spans 16 language directions, covering HRLs, LRLs, with diverse scripts. We find that the choice of model is essential for performance. On average, for HRLs, Llama3-70B outperforms the previous state of the art by as much as 0.16 MCC (Matthews Correlation Coefficient). However, for LRLs we observe that Claude Sonnet outperforms other LLMs on average by 0.03 MCC. The key takeaway from our study is that LLMs can achieve performance comparable or even better than previously proposed models, despite not being explicitly trained for any machine translation task. However, their advantage is less significant for LRLs."}
{"Title": "Navigating Hallucinations for Reasoning of Unintentional Activities", "Abstract": "In this work we present a novel task of understanding unintentional human activities in videos. We formalize this problem as a reasoning task under zero-shot scenario, where given a video of an unintentional activity we want to know why it transitioned from intentional to unintentional. We first evaluate the effectiveness of current state-of-the-art Large Multimodal Models on this reasoning task and observe that they suffer from hallucination. We further propose a novel prompting technique, termed as Dream of Thoughts (DoT), which allows the model to navigate through hallucinated thoughts to achieve better reasoning. To evaluate the performance on this task, we also introduce three different specialized metrics designed to quantify the models reasoning capability. We perform our experiments on three datasets, OOPs, UCF-Crimes, and ReUAct, and our findings show that DOT prompting technique is able to outperform standard prompting, while minimizing hallucinations."}
{"Title": "Pruning Foundation Models for High Accuracy without Retraining", "Abstract": "Despite the superior performance, it is challenging to deploy large language models (LLMs) due to their massive parameters and computations. While pruning is a promising technique to reduce model size and accelerate the inference, the traditional pruning techniques can hardly be applied for LLMs as they need to finetune the model on the full dataset with multiple epochs consuming massive data and hardware resources. To deal with this problem, post-training pruning methods are proposed to prune LLMs in one-shot without retraining. However, their accuracy after pruning may suffer from certain performance degradation due to the lack of retraining with massive data. To address this issue, in this paper, we first formulate the post-training problem for layer-wise LLM compression to simultaneously prune multiple weights in LLMs. Next, we provide an optimal solution for this problem and design our post-training pruning algorithm for both unstructured and semi-structured sparsity. Our extensive experiments demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed methods in comparison to SOTA baselines across various LLM families including transformer-based LLMs and Mamba-based LLMs."}
{"Title": "From Pixels to Personas: Investigating and Modeling Self-Anthropomorphism in Human-Robot Dialogues", "Abstract": "Self-anthropomorphism in robots manifests itself through their display of human-like characteristics in dialogue, such as expressing preferences and emotions. Our study systematically analyzes self-anthropomorphic expression within various dialogue datasets, outlining the contrasts between self-anthropomorphic and non-self-anthropomorphic responses in dialogue systems. We show significant differences in these two types of responses and propose transitioning from one type to the other. We also introduce Pix2Persona, a novel dataset aimed at developing ethical and engaging AI systems in various embodiments. This dataset preserves the original dialogues from existing corpora and enhances them with paired responses: self-anthropomorphic and non-self-anthropomorphic for each original bot response. Our work not only uncovers a new category of bot responses that were previously under-explored but also lays the groundwork for future studies about dynamically adjusting self-anthropomorphism levels in AI systems to align with ethical standards and user expectations."}
{"Title": "DisGeM: Distractor Generation for Multiple Choice Questions with Span Masking", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in Natural Language Processing (NLP) have impacted numerous sub-fields such as natural language generation, natural language inference, question answering, and more. However, in the field of question generation, the creation of distractors for multiple-choice questions (MCQ) remains a challenging task. In this work, we present a simple, generic framework for distractor generation using readily available Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs). Unlike previous methods, our framework relies solely on pre-trained language models and does not require additional training on specific datasets. Building upon previous research, we introduce a two-stage framework consisting of candidate generation and candidate selection. Our proposed distractor generation framework outperforms previous methods without the need for training or fine-tuning. Human evaluations confirm that our approach produces more effective and engaging distractors. The related codebase is publicly available at https://github.com/obss/disgem."}
{"Title": "ChatGLM-Math: Improving Math Problem-Solving in Large Language Models with a Self-Critique Pipeline", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have shown excellent mastering of human language but still struggle in real-world applications that require mathematical problem-solving. While many strategies and datasets to enhance LLMs{'} mathematics are developed, it remains a challenge to simultaneously maintain and improve both language and mathematical capabilities in deployed LLM systems. In this work, we tailor the Self-Critique pipeline, which addresses the challenge in the feedback learning stage of LLM alignment. We first train a general Math-Critique model from the LLM itself to provide feedback signals. Then, we sequentially employ rejective fine-tuning and direct preference optimization over the LLM{'}s own generations for data collection. Based on ChatGLM3-32B, we conduct experiments on both academic and our newly created challenging dataset, MathUserEval. Results show that our pipeline significantly enhances the LLM{'}s mathematical problem-solving while still improving its language ability, outperforming LLMs that could be two times larger. Related techniques have been deployed to ChatGLM, an online serving LLM. Related evaluation datasets and scripts are released at \\url{https://github.com/THUDM/ChatGLM-Math}."}
{"Title": "MobileQuant: Mobile-friendly Quantization for On-device Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized language processing, delivering outstanding results across multiple applications. However, deploying LLMs on edge devices poses several challenges with respect to memory, energy, and compute costs, limiting their widespread use in devices such as mobile phones. A promising solution is to reduce the number of bits used to represent weights and activations. While existing works have found partial success at quantizing LLMs to lower bitwidths, e.g. 4-bit weights, quantizing activations beyond 16 bits often leads to large computational overheads due to poor on-device quantization support, or a considerable accuracy drop. Yet, 8-bit activations are very attractive for on-device deployment as they would enable LLMs to fully exploit mobile-friendly hardware, e.g. Neural Processing Units (NPUs). In this work, we make a first attempt to facilitate the on-device deployment of LLMs using integer-only quantization. We first investigate the limitations of existing quantization methods for on-device deployment, with a special focus on activation quantization. We then address these limitations by introducing a simple post-training quantization method, named MobileQuant, that extends previous weight equivalent transformation works by jointly optimizing the weight transformation and activation range parameters in an end-to-end manner. MobileQuant demonstrates superior capabilities over existing methods by 1) achieving near-lossless quantization on a wide range of LLM benchmarks, 2) reducing latency and energy consumption by 20{\\%}-50{\\%} compared to current on-device quantization strategies, 3) requiring limited compute budget, 4) being compatible with mobile-friendly compute units, e.g. NPU."}
{"Title": "Do *they* mean `us'? Interpreting Referring Expression variation under Intergroup Bias", "Abstract": "The variations between in-group and out-group speech (intergroup bias) are subtle and could underlie many social phenomena like stereotype perpetuation and implicit bias. In this paper, we model intergroup bias as a tagging task on English sports comments from forums dedicated to fandom for NFL teams. We curate a dataset of over 6 million game-time comments from opposing perspectives (the teams in the game), each comment grounded in a non-linguistic description of the events that precipitated these comments (live win probabilities for each team). Expert and crowd annotations justify modeling the bias through tagging of implicit and explicit referring expressions and reveal the rich, contextual understanding of language and the world required for this task. For large-scale analysis of intergroup variation, we use LLMs for automated tagging, and discover that LLMs occasionally perform better when prompted with linguistic descriptions of the win probability at the time of the comment, rather than numerical probability. Further, large-scale tagging of comments using LLMs uncovers linear variations in the form of referent across win probabilities that distinguish in-group and out-group utterances."}
{"Title": "A Survey on Detection of LLMs-Generated Content", "Abstract": "The burgeoning capabilities of advanced large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT have led to an increase in synthetic content generation with implications across a variety of sectors, including media, cybersecurity, public discourse, and education. As such, the ability to detect LLMs-generated content has become of paramount importance. We aim to provide a detailed overview of existing detection strategies and benchmarks, scrutinizing their differences and identifying key challenges and prospects in the field, advocating for more adaptable and robust models to enhance detection accuracy. We also posit the necessity for a multi-faceted approach to defend against various attacks to counter the rapidly advancing capabilities of LLMs. To the best of our knowledge, this work is the first comprehensive survey on the detection in the era of LLMs. We hope it will provide a broad understanding of the current landscape of LLMs-generated content detection, and we have maintained a website to consistently update the latest research as a guiding reference for researchers and practitioners."}
{"Title": "Can LLMs Reason in the Wild with Programs?", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown superior capability to solve reasoning problems with programs. While being a promising direction, most of such frameworks are trained and evaluated in settings with a prior knowledge of task requirements. However, as LLMs become more capable, it is necessary to assess their reasoning abilities in more realistic scenarios where many real-world problems are open-ended with ambiguous scope, and often require multiple formalisms to solve. To investigate this, we introduce the task of reasoning in the wild, where an LLM is tasked to solve a reasoning problem of unknown type by identifying the sub-problems and their corresponding formalisms, and writing a program to solve each sub-problem, guided by a tactic. We create a large tactic-guided trajectory dataset containing detailed solutions to a diverse set of reasoning problems, ranging from well-defined single-form reasoning (e.g., math, logic), to ambiguous and hybrid ones (e.g., commonsense, combined math and logic). This allows us to test various aspects of LLMs reasoning at the fine-grained level such as the selection and execution of tactics, and the tendency to take undesired shortcuts. In experiments, we highlight that existing LLMs fail significantly on problems with ambiguous and mixed scope, revealing critical limitations and overfitting issues (e.g. accuracy on GSM8K drops by at least 50{\\%}). We further show the potential of finetuning a local LLM on the tactic-guided trajectories in achieving better performance. Project repo is available at https://github.com/gblackout/Reason-in-the-Wild."}
{"Title": "Can Textual Unlearning Solve Cross-Modality Safety Alignment?", "Abstract": "Recent studies reveal that integrating new modalities into large language models (LLMs), such as vision-language models (VLMs), creates a new attack surface that bypasses existing safety training techniques like supervised fine-tuning (SFT) and reinforcement learning with human feedback (RLHF). While further SFT and RLHF-based safety training can be conducted in multi-modal settings, collecting multi-modal training datasets poses a significant challenge. Inspired by the structural design of recent multi-modal models, where all input modalities are ultimately fused into the language space, we explore whether unlearning solely in the textual domain can be effective for cross-modality safety alignment. Our empirical evaluation across seven datasets demonstrates promising transferability {---} textual unlearning in VLMs significantly reduces the Attack Success Rate (ASR) to less than 8{\\%} and in some cases, even as low as nearly 2{\\%} for both text-based and vision-text-based attacks, alongside preserving the utility. Moreover, our experiments show that unlearning with a multi-modal dataset offers no potential benefits but incurs significantly increased computational demands."}
{"Title": "VDebugger: Harnessing Execution Feedback for Debugging Visual Programs", "Abstract": "Visual programs are executable code generated by large language models to address visual reasoning problems. They decompose complex questions into multiple reasoning steps and invoke specialized models for each step to solve the problems. However, these programs are prone to logic errors, with our preliminary evaluation showing that 58{\\%} of the total errors are caused by program logic errors. Debugging complex visual programs remains a major bottleneck for visual reasoning. To address this, we introduce **VDebugger**, a novel critic-refiner framework trained to localize and debug visual programs by tracking execution step by step. VDebugger identifies and corrects program errors leveraging detailed execution feedback, improving interpretability and accuracy. The training data is generated through an automated pipeline that injects errors into correct visual programs using a novel mask-best decoding technique. Evaluations on six datasets demonstrate VDebugger{'}s effectiveness, showing performance improvements of up to 3.2{\\%} in downstream task accuracy. Further studies show VDebugger{'}s ability to generalize to unseen tasks, bringing a notable improvement of 2.3{\\%} on the unseen COVR task."}
{"Title": "Monotonic Paraphrasing Improves Generalization of Language Model Prompting", "Abstract": "Performance of large language models (LLMs) may vary with different prompts or instructions of even the same task. One commonly recognized factor for this phenomenon is the model{'}s familiarity with the given prompt or instruction, which is typically estimated by its perplexity. However, finding the prompt with the lowest perplexity is challenging, given the enormous space of possible prompting phrases. In this paper, we propose monotonic paraphrasing (MonoPara), an end-to-end decoding strategy that paraphrases given prompts or instructions into their lower perplexity counterparts based on an ensemble of a paraphrase LM for prompt (or instruction) rewriting, and a target LM (i.e. the prompt or instruction executor) that constrains the generation for lower perplexity. The ensemble decoding process can efficiently paraphrase the original prompt without altering its semantic meaning, while monotonically decrease the perplexity of each generation as calculated by the target LM. We explore in detail both greedy and search-based decoding as two alternative decoding schemes of MonoPara. Notably, MonoPara does not require any training and can monotonically lower the perplexity of the paraphrased prompt or instruction, leading to improved performance of zero-shot LM prompting as evaluated on a wide selection of tasks. In addition, MonoPara is also shown to effectively improve LMs{'} generalization on perturbed and unseen task instructions."}
{"Title": "MORL-Prompt: An Empirical Analysis of Multi-Objective Reinforcement Learning for Discrete Prompt Optimization", "Abstract": "RL-based techniques can be employed to search for prompts that, when fed into a target language model, maximize a set of user-specified reward functions. However, in many target applications, the natural reward functions are in tension with one another {--} for example, content preservation vs. style matching in style transfer tasks. Current techniques focus on maximizing the average of reward functions, which does not necessarily lead to prompts that achieve balance across rewards {--} an issue that has been well-studied in the multi-objective and robust optimization literature. In this paper, we conduct an empirical comparison of several existing multi-objective optimization techniques adapted to this new setting: RL-based discrete prompt optimization. We compare two methods optimizing the volume of the Pareto reward surface and one method that chooses an update direction that benefits all rewards simultaneously. We evaluate performance on two NLP tasks: style transfer and machine translation, each using three competing reward functions. Our experiments demonstrate that multi-objective methods that directly optimize the volume of the Pareto reward surface perform better and achieve a better balance of all rewards than those that attempt to find monotonic update directions."}
{"Title": "Understanding Faithfulness and Reasoning of Large Language Models on Plain Biomedical Summaries", "Abstract": "Generating plain biomedical summaries with Large Language Models (LLMs) can enhance the accessibility of biomedical knowledge to the public. However, how faithful the generated summaries are remains an open yet critical question. To address this, we propose FaReBio, a benchmark dataset with expert-annotated Faithfulness and Reasoning on plain Biomedical Summaries. This dataset consists of 175 plain summaries ({\\$},445 sentences) generated by seven different LLMs, paired with source articles. Using our dataset, we identify the performance gap of LLMs in generating faithful plain biomedical summaries and observe a negative correlation between abstractiveness and faithfulness. We also show that current faithfulness evaluation metrics do not work well in the biomedical domain and confirm the over-confident tendency of LLMs as faithfulness evaluators. To better understand the faithfulness judgements, we further benchmark LLMs in retrieving supporting evidence and show the gap of LLMs in reasoning faithfulness evaluation at different abstractiveness levels. Going beyond the binary faithfulness labels, coupled with the annotation of supporting sentences, our dataset could further contribute to the understanding of faithfulness evaluation and reasoning."}
{"Title": "Change Is the Only Constant: Dynamic LLM Slicing based on Layer Redundancy", "Abstract": "This paper introduces a novel model compression approach through dynamic layer-specific pruning in Large Language Models (LLMs), enhancing the traditional methodology established by SliceGPT. By transitioning from constant to dynamic slicing, our method leverages the newly proposed Layer Redundancy (LR) score, which assesses how much change each layer changes its input by measuring the cosine similarity of the input to the output of the layer. We use this score to prune parts of individual layers based on redundancy in such a way that the average pruned percentage for all layers is a fixed value. We conducted extensive experiments using models like Llama3-8B and Mistral-7B on multiple datasets, evaluating different slicing bases and percentages to determine optimal configurations that balance efficiency and performance. Our findings show that our dynamic slicing approach not only maintains but, in many cases, enhances model performance compared to the baseline established by constant slicing methods. For instance, in several settings, we see performance improvements of up to 5{\\%} over the SliceGPT baseline.Additionally, a perplexity decrease by as much as 7{\\%} was observed across multiple benchmarks, validating the effectiveness of our method. The code, model weights, and datasets are open-sourced at - https://github.com/RazvanDu/DynamicSlicing"}
{"Title": "Pruning Multilingual Large Language Models for Multilingual Inference", "Abstract": "Multilingual large language models (MLLMs), trained on multilingual balanced data, demonstrate better zero-shot learning performance in non-English languages compared to large language models trained on English-dominant data. However, the disparity in performance between English and non-English languages remains a challenge yet to be fully addressed. This study introduces a promising direction for enhancing non-English performance through a specialized pruning approach. Specifically, we prune MLLMs using bilingual sentence pairs from English and other languages and empirically demonstrate that this pruning strategy can enhance the MLLMs{'} performance in non-English language."}
{"Title": "Video Discourse Parsing and Its Application to Multimodal Summarization: A Dataset and Baseline Approaches", "Abstract": "This paper tackles a new task: discourse parsing for videos, inspired by text discourse parsing based on Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST). The task aims to construct an RST tree for a video to represent its storyline and illustrate the event relationships. We first construct a benchmark dataset by identifying events with their time spans, providing corresponding captions, and constructing RST trees with events as leaves. We then evaluate baseline approaches to video RST parsing: the {`}parsing after captioning{'} framework and parsing via visual features. The results show that a parser using gold captions performed the best, while parsers relying on generated captions performed the worst; a parser using visual features provided intermediate performance. However, we observed that parsing via visual features could be improved by pre-training it with video captioning designed to produce a coherent video story. Furthermore, we demonstrated that RST trees obtained from videos contribute to multimodal summarization consisting of keyframes with texts."}
{"Title": "Length Extrapolation of Transformers: A Survey from the Perspective of Positional Encoding", "Abstract": "Built upon the Transformer, large language models (LLMs) have captured worldwide attention due to their remarkable abilities. Nevertheless, all Transformer-based models including LLMs suffer from a preset length limit and can hardly generalize from short training sequences to longer inference ones, namely, they can not perform **length extrapolation** to handle long sequences. Thus, numerous methods have emerged to enhance the length extrapolation of Transformers. Despite the great research efforts, a systematic survey is still lacking. To fill this gap, we delve into these advances in a unified notation from the perspective of positional encoding (PE), as it has been considered the primary factor on length extrapolation. Specifically, we begin with extrapolatable PEs that have dominated this research field. Then, we dive into extrapolation methods based on them, covering position interpolation and randomized position methods. Finally, several challenges and future directions in this area are highlighted. Through this survey, We aim to enable the reader to gain a deep understanding of existing methods and provide stimuli for future research."}
{"Title": "VPL: Visual Proxy Learning Framework for Zero-Shot Medical Image Diagnosis", "Abstract": "Vision-language models like CLIP, utilizing class proxies derived from class name text features, have shown a notable capability in zero-shot medical image diagnosis which is vital in scenarios with limited disease databases or labeled samples. However, insufficient medical text precision and the modal disparity between text and vision spaces pose challenges for such paradigm. We show analytically and experimentally that enriching medical texts with detailed descriptions can markedly enhance the diagnosis performance, with the granularity and phrasing of these enhancements having a crucial impact on CLIP{'}s understanding of medical images; and learning proxies within the vision domain can effectively circumvent the modal gap issue. Based on our analysis, we propose a medical visual proxy learning framework comprising two key components: a text refinement module that create high quality medical text descriptions, and a stable Sinkhorn algorithm for an efficient generation of pseudo labels which further guide the visual proxy learning. Our method elevates the Vanilla CLIP inference by supplying meticulously crafted clues to leverage CLIP{'}s existing interpretive power and using the feature of refined texts to bridge the vision-text gap. The effectiveness and robustness of our method are clearly demonstrated through extensive experiments. Notably, our method outperforms the state-of-the-art zero-shot medical image diagnosis by a significant margin, ranging from 1.69{\\%} to 15.31{\\%} on five datasets covering various diseases, confirming its immense potential in zero-shot diagnosis across diverse medical applications."}
{"Title": "Word-Conditioned 3D American Sign Language Motion Generation", "Abstract": "Sign words are the building blocks of any sign language. In this work, we present wSignGen, a word-conditioned 3D American Sign Language (ASL) generation model dedicated to synthesizing realistic and grammatically accurate motion sequences for sign words. Our approach leverages a transformer-based diffusion model, trained on a curated dataset of 3D motion meshes from word-level ASL videos. By integrating CLIP, wSignGen offers two advantages: image-based generation, which is particularly useful for children learning sign language but not yet able to read, and the ability to generalize to unseen synonyms. Experiments demonstrate that wSignGen significantly outperforms the baseline model in the task of sign word generation. Moreover, human evaluation experiments show that wSignGen can generate high-quality, grammatically correct ASL signs effectively conveyed through 3D avatars."}
{"Title": "TrustAgent: Towards Safe and Trustworthy LLM-based Agents", "Abstract": "The rise of LLM-based agents shows great potential to revolutionize task planning, capturing significant attention. Given that these agents will be integrated into high-stake domains, ensuring their reliability and safety is crucial. This paper presents an Agent-Constitution-based agent framework, TrustAgent, with a particular focus on improving the LLM-based agent safety. The proposed framework ensures strict adherence to the Agent Constitution through three strategic components: pre-planning strategy which injects safety knowledge to the model before plan generation, in-planning strategy which enhances safety during plan generation, and post-planning strategy which ensures safety by post-planning inspection. Our experimental results demonstrate that the proposed framework can effectively enhance an LLM agent{'}s safety across multiple domains by identifying and mitigating potential dangers during the planning. Further analysis reveals that the framework not only improves safety but also enhances the helpfulness of the agent. Additionally, we highlight the importance of the LLM reasoning ability in adhering to the Constitution. This paper sheds light on how to ensure the safe integration of LLM-based agents into human-centric environments. Data and code are available at \\url{https://anonymous.4open.science/r/TrustAgent-06DC}."}
{"Title": "Enabling Cross-Platform Comparison of Online Communities Using Content and Opinion Similarity", "Abstract": "With the continuous growth of online communities, understanding their similarities and dissimilarities is more crucial than ever for enhancing digital interactions, maintaining healthy interactions, and improving content recommendation and moderation systems. In this work, we present two novel techniques: BOTS for finding similarity between online communities based on their opinion, and Emb-PSR for finding similarity in the content they post. To facilitate finding the similarity based on opinion, we model the opinions on online communities using upvotes and downvotes as an indicator for community approval. Our results demonstrate that BOTS and Emb-PSR outperform existing techniques at their individual tasks while also being flexible enough to allow for cross-platform comparison of online communities. We demonstrate this novel cross-platform capability by comparing GAB with various subreddits."}
{"Title": "CNEQ: Incorporating numbers into Knowledge Graph Reasoning", "Abstract": "Complex logical reasoning over knowledge graphs lies at the heart of many semantic downstream applications and thus has been extensively explored in recent years. However, nearly all of them overlook the rich semantics of numerical entities (e.g., magnitude, unit, and distribution) and are simply treated as common entities, or even directly removed. It may severely hinder the performance of answering queries involving numerical comparison or numerical computation. To address this issue, we propose the \\textbf{C}omplex \\textbf{N}umber and \\textbf{E}ntity \\textbf{Q}uery model (CNEQ), which comprises a Number-Entity Predictor and an Entity Filter. The Number-Entity Predictor can independently learn the structural and semantic features of entities and numerical values, thereby enabling better prediction of entities as well as numerical values. The Entity Filter can compare or calculate numerical values to filter out entities that meet certain numerical constraints. To evaluate our model, we generated a variety of multi-hop complex logical queries including numerical values on three widely-used Knowledge Graphs: FB15K, DB15K, and YAGO15K. Experimental results demonstrate that CNEQ achieves state-of-the-art results."}
{"Title": "StraGo: Harnessing Strategic Guidance for Prompt Optimization", "Abstract": "Prompt engineering is pivotal for harnessing the capabilities of large language models (LLMs) across diverse applications. While existing prompt optimization methods improve prompt effectiveness, they often lead to prompt drifting, wherein newly generated prompts canadversely impact previously successful cases while addressing failures. Furthermore, these methods tend to rely heavily on LLMs{'} intrinsic capabilities for prompt optimization tasks. In this paper, we introduce STRAGO (StrategicGuided Optimization), a novel approach designed to mitigate prompt drifting by leveraging insights from both successful and failed cases to identify critical factors for achieving optimization objectives. STRAGO employs a how-to-do methodology, integrating in-context learning to formulate specific, actionable strategies that provide detailed, step-by-step guidance for prompt optimization. Extensive experiments conducted across a range of tasks, including reasoning, natural language understanding, domain-specific knowledge, and industrial applications, demonstrate STRAGO{'}s superior performance. It establishes a new stateof-the-art in prompt optimization, showcasing its ability to deliver stable and effective prompt improvements."}
{"Title": "Learning to Plan by Updating Natural Language", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable performance in various basic natural language tasks. For completing the complex task, we still need a plan for the task to guide LLMs to generate the specific solutions step by step. LLMs can directly generate task plans, but these plans may still contain factual errors or are incomplete. A high-quality task plan contains correct step-by-step solutions for solving all situations and behavioral instructions for avoiding mistakes. To obtain it, we propose the Learning to Plan method, which involves two phases: (1) In the first learning task plan phase, it iteratively updates the task plan with new step-by-step solutions and behavioral instructions, which are obtained by prompting LLMs to derive from training error feedback. (2) In the subsequent test phase, the LLM uses the learned task plan to guide the inference of LLM on the test set. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on the five different reasoning type tasks (8 datasets). Further, our analysis experiment shows that the task plan learned by one LLM can directly guide another LLM to improve its performance, which reveals a new transfer learning paradigm."}
{"Title": "C-ICL: Contrastive In-context Learning for Information Extraction", "Abstract": "There has been increasing interest in exploring the capabilities of advanced large language models (LLMs) in the field of information extraction (IE), specifically focusing on tasks related to named entity recognition (NER) and relation extraction (RE). Although researchers are exploring the use of few-shot information extraction through in-context learning with LLMs, they tend to focus only on using correct or positive examples for demonstration, neglecting the potential value of incorporating incorrect or negative examples into the learning process. In this paper, we present C-ICL, a novel few-shot technique that leverages both correct and incorrect sample constructions to create in-context learning demonstrations. This approach enhances the ability of LLMs to extract entities and relations by utilizing prompts that incorporate not only the positive samples but also the reasoning behind them. This method allows for the identification and correction of potential interface errors. Specifically, our proposed method taps into the inherent contextual information and valuable information in hard negative samples and the nearest positive neighbors to the test and then applies the in-context learning demonstrations based on LLMs. Our experiments on various datasets indicate that C-ICL outperforms previous few-shot in-context learning methods, delivering substantial enhancements in performance across a broad spectrum of related tasks. These improvements are noteworthy, showcasing the versatility of our approach in miscellaneous scenarios."}
{"Title": "On the Similarity of Circuits across Languages: a Case Study on the Subject-verb Agreement Task", "Abstract": "Several algorithms implemented by language models have recently been successfully reversed-engineered. However, these findings have been concentrated on specific tasks and models, leaving it unclear how universal circuits are across different settings. In this paper, we study the circuits implemented by Gemma 2B for solving the subject-verb agreement task across two different languages, English and Spanish. We discover that both circuits are highly consistent, being mainly driven by a particular attention head writing a {`}subject number{'} signal to the last residual stream, which is read by a small set of neurons in the final MLPs. Notably, this subject number signal is represented as a direction in the residual stream space, and is language-independent. Finally, we demonstrate this direction has a causal effect on the model predictions, effectively flipping the Spanish predicted verb number by intervening with the direction found in English."}
{"Title": "Can LLM be a Personalized Judge?", "Abstract": "As large language models (LLMs) gain widespread adoption, ensuring they cater to diverse user needs has become increasingly important. While many researchers have studied LLM personalization and role-playing, they primarily use LLM-as-a-Judge for evaluation without thoroughly examining its validity. This paper investigates the reliability of LLM-as-a-Personalized-Judge{---}asking LLMs to judge user preferences based on persona. Our results suggest that LLM-as-a-Personalized-Judge is less reliable for personalization than previously believed, showing low agreement with human ground truth. We observed that the personas provided to the LLM often have limited predictive power for the tasks, leading us to introduce verbal uncertainty estimation. We find that powerful LLMs are aware of the certainty of their prediction and can achieve high agreement with ground truth on high-certainty samples, indicating a promising approach for building reliable and scalable proxies for evaluating LLM personalization. Our human annotation reveals that third-person crowd worker evaluations of personalized preferences are even worse than LLM predictions, highlighting the challenges of evaluating LLM personalization."}
{"Title": "Who's Who: Large Language Models Meet Knowledge Conflicts in Practice", "Abstract": "Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) methods are viable solutions for addressing the static memory limits of pre-trained language models. Nevertheless, encountering conflicting sources of information within the retrieval context is an inevitable practical challenge. In such situations, the language models are recommended to transparently inform users about the conflicts rather than autonomously deciding what to present based on their inherent biases. To analyze how current large language models (LLMs) align with our recommendation, we introduce WhoQA, a public benchmark dataset to examine model{'}s behavior in knowledge conflict situations. We induce conflicts by asking about a common property among entities having the same name, resulting in questions with up to 8 distinctive answers. WhoQA evaluation set includes 5K questions across 13 Wikidata property types and 150K Wikipedia entities. Our experiments show that despite the simplicity of WhoQA questions, knowledge conflicts significantly degrades LLMs{'} performance in RAG settings."}
{"Title": "Unleashing the Potentials of Likelihood Composition for Multi-modal Language Models", "Abstract": "Model fusing has always been an important topic, especially in an era where large language models (LLM) and multi-modal language models (MLM) with different architectures, parameter sizes and training pipelines, are being created all the time. In this work, we propose a post-hoc framework, aiming at fusing heterogeneous models off-the-shell, which we call \\textit{likelihood composition}, and the basic idea is to compose multiple models{'} likelihood distribution when doing a multi-choice visual-question-answering task. Here the core concept, \\textit{likelihood}, is actually the log-probability of the candidate answer. In \\textit{likelihood composition}, we introduce some basic operations: \\textit{debias}, \\textit{highlight}, \\textit{majority-vote} and \\textit{ensemble}. By combining (composing) these basic elements, we get the mixed composition methods: \\textit{mix-composition}. Through conducting comprehensive experiments on 9 VQA datasets and 10 MLMs, we prove the effectiveness of \\textit{mix-composition} compared with simple \\textit{ensemble} or \\textit{majority-vote} methods. In this framework, people can propose new basic composition methods and combine them to get the new mixed composition methods. We hope our proposed \\textit{likelihood composition} can provide a new perspective of fusing heterogeneous models and inspire the exploration under this framework."}
{"Title": "Automated Peer Reviewing in Paper SEA: Standardization, Evaluation, and Analysis", "Abstract": "In recent years, the rapid increase in scientific papers has overwhelmed traditional review mechanisms, resulting in varying quality of publications. Although existing methods have explored the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) for automated scientific reviewing, their generated contents are often generic or partial. To address the issues above, we introduce an automated paper reviewing framework SEA. It comprises of three modules: Standardization, Evaluation, and Analysis, which are represented by models SEA-S, SEA-E, and SEA-A, respectively. Initially, SEA-S distills data standardization capabilities of GPT-4 for integrating multiple reviews for a paper. Then, SEA-E utilizes standardized data for fine-tuning, enabling it to generate constructive reviews. Finally, SEA-A introduces a new evaluation metric called mismatch score to assess the consistency between paper contents and reviews. Moreover, we design a self-correction strategy to enhance the consistency. Extensive experimental results on datasets collected from eight venues show that SEA can generate valuable insights for authors to improve their papers."}
{"Title": "Knowledge-based Consistency Testing of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "In this work, we systematically expose and measure the inconsistency and knowledge gaps of Large Language Models (LLMs). Specifically, we propose an automated testing framework (called KONTEST) which leverages a knowledge graph to construct test cases. KONTEST probes and measures the inconsistencies in the LLM{'}s knowledge of the world via a combination of semantically-equivalent queries and test oracles (metamorphic or ontological oracle). KONTEST further mitigates knowledge gaps via a weighted LLM model ensemble. Using four state-of-the-art LLMs (Falcon, Gemini, GPT3.5, and Llama2), we show that KONTEST generates 19.2{\\%} error inducing inputs (1917 errors from 9979 test inputs). It also reveals a 16.5{\\%} knowledge gap across all tested LLMs. A mitigation method informed by KONTEST{'}s test suite reduces LLM knowledge gap by 32.48{\\%}. Our ablation study further shows that GPT3.5 is not suitable for knowledge-based consistency testing because it is only 60{\\%}-68{\\%} effective in knowledge construction."}
{"Title": "PRESTO: Progressive Pretraining Enhances Synthetic Chemistry Outcomes", "Abstract": "Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have seen growing adoption across various scientific disciplines. These advancements encourage the investigation of molecule-text modeling within synthetic chemistry, a field dedicated to designing and conducting chemical reactions to synthesize new compounds with desired properties and applications. Current approaches, however, often neglect the critical role of multi-molecule graph interaction in understanding chemical reactions, leading to suboptimal performance in synthetic chemistry tasks. This study introduces PRESTO (Progressive Pretraining Enhances Synthetic Chemistry Outcomes), a new framework that bridges the molecule-text modality gap by integrating a comprehensive benchmark of pretraining strategies and dataset configurations. It progressively improves multimodal LLMs through cross-modal alignment and multi-graph understanding. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that PRESTO offers competitive results in downstream synthetic chemistry tasks. The code can be found at https://github.com/IDEA-XL/PRESTO."}
{"Title": "Query Routing for Homogeneous Tools: An Instantiation in the RAG Scenario", "Abstract": "Current research on tool learning primarily focuses on selecting the most effective tool from a wide array of options, often overlooking cost-effectiveness, a crucial factor in human problem-solving. In this paper, we address query routing for homogeneous tools by predicting both their performance and the associated cost required to accomplish a given task. We then assign queries to the optimal tools in a cost-effective manner. Our experimental results demonstrate that our method achieves higher performance at a lower cost compared to strong baseline approaches."}
{"Title": "MobileVLM: A Vision-Language Model for Better Intra- and Inter-UI Understanding", "Abstract": "Recently, mobile AI agents based on VLMs have been gaining increasing attention. These works typically utilize VLM as a foundation, fine-tuning it with instruction-based mobile datasets. However, these VLMs are typically pre-trained on general-domain data, which often results in a lack of fundamental capabilities specific to the mobile domain. Therefore, they may struggle to recognize specific UI elements and understand intra-UI fine-grained information. In addition, the current fine-tuning task focuses on interacting with the most relevant element for the given instruction. These fine-tuned VLMs may still ignore the relationships between UI pages, neglect the roles of elements in page transitions and lack inter-UI understanding. To address issues, we propose a VLM called MobileVLM, which includes two additional pre-training stages to enhance both intra- and inter-UI understanding. We defined four UI-based pre-training tasks, enabling the model to better perceive fine-grained elements and capture page transition actions. To address the lack of mobile pre-training data, we built a large Chinese mobile dataset Mobile3M from scratch, which contains 3 million UI pages, and real-world transition actions, forming a directed graph structure. Experimental results show MobileVLM excels on both our test set and public mobile benchmarks, outperforming existing VLMs."}
{"Title": "Schema-Driven Information Extraction from Heterogeneous Tables", "Abstract": "In this paper, we explore the question of whether large language models can support cost-efficient information extraction from tables. We introduce schema-driven information extraction, a new task that transforms tabular data into structured records following a human-authored schema. To assess various LLM{'}s capabilities on this task, we present a benchmark comprised of tables from four diverse domains: machine learning papers, chemistry literature, material science journals, and webpages. We use this collection of annotated tables to evaluate the ability of open-source and API-based language models to extract information from tables covering diverse domains and data formats. Our experiments demonstrate that surprisingly competitive performance can be achieved without requiring task-specific pipelines or labels, achieving F1 scores ranging from 74.2 to 96.1, while maintaining cost efficiency. Moreover, through detailed ablation studies and analyses, we investigate the factors contributing to model success and validate the practicality of distilling compact models to reduce API reliance."}
{"Title": "Is There a One-Model-Fits-All Approach to Information Extraction? Revisiting Task Definition Biases", "Abstract": "Definition bias is a negative phenomenon that can mislead models. However, definition bias in information extraction appears not only across datasets from different domains but also within datasets sharing the same domain. We identify two types of definition bias in IE: bias among information extraction datasets and bias between information extraction datasets and instruction tuning datasets. To systematically investigate definition bias, we conduct three probing experiments to quantitatively analyze it and discover the limitations of unified information extraction and large language models in solving definition bias. To mitigate definition bias in information extraction, we propose a multi-stage framework consisting of definition bias measurement, bias-aware fine-tuning, and task-specific bias mitigation. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework in addressing definition bias."}
{"Title": "PromptIntern: Saving Inference Costs by Internalizing Recurrent Prompt during Large Language Model Fine-tuning", "Abstract": "Recent advances in fine-tuning large language models (LLMs) have greatly enhanced their usage in domain-specific tasks. Despite the success, fine-tuning continues to rely on repeated and lengthy prompts, which escalate computational expenses, require more resources, and lead to slower inference. In this paper, we present a novel approach, PromptIntern, which internalizes prompt knowledge during model fine-tuning to achieve efficient inference and save costs. Instead of compressing the prompts for a vanilla model, PromptIntern aims to embed the recurrent prompt directly into the model parameters. We design a fine-tuning pipeline that includes instruction template compression, few-shot example absorption, and a progressive internalization strategy, effectively diminishing the need for intricate prompts during inference. Comprehensive experiments on challenging NL2Code tasks demonstrate that our method reduces input tokens by more than 90{\\%}, accelerates inference by 4.2 times, and reduces monetary inference costs by 88.3{\\%}."}
{"Title": "TAP4LLM: Table Provider on Sampling, Augmenting, and Packing Semi-structured Data for Large Language Model Reasoning", "Abstract": "Table reasoning tasks have shown remarkable progress with the development of large language models (LLMs), which involve interpreting and drawing conclusions from tabular data based on natural language (NL) questions. Existing solutions mainly tested on smaller tables face scalability issues and struggle with complex queries due to incomplete or dispersed data across different table sections. To alleviate these challenges, we propose TAP4LLM as a versatile pre-processor suite for leveraging LLMs in table-based tasks effectively. It covers several distinct components: (1) table sampling to decompose large tables into manageable sub-tables based on query semantics, (2) table augmentation to enhance tables with additional knowledge from external sources or models, and (3) table packing {\\&} serialization to convert tables into various formats suitable for LLMs{'} understanding. In each module, we design and compare several common methods for usage in various scenarios, aiming to shed light on the best practices for leveraging LLMs for table-reasoning tasks. Our experiments show that our method improves LLMs{'} reasoning capabilities in various tabular tasks and enhances the interaction between LLMs and tabular data by employing effective pre-processing."}
{"Title": "In2Core: Leveraging Influence Functions for Coreset Selection in Instruction Finetuning of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Despite advancements, fine-tuning Large Language Models (LLMs) remains costly due to the extensive parameter count and substantial data requirements for model generalization. Accessibility to computing resources remains a barrier for the open-source community. To address this challenge, we propose the In2Core algorithm, which selects a coreset by analyzing the correlation between training and evaluation samples with a trained model. Notably, we assess the model{'}s internal gradients to estimate this relationship, aiming to rank the contribution of each training point. To enhance efficiency, we propose an optimization to compute influence functions with a reduced number of layers while achieving similar accuracy. By applying our algorithm to instruction fine-tuning data of LLMs, we can achieve similar performance with just 50{\\%} of the training data. Meantime, using influence functions to analyze model coverage to certain testing samples could provide a reliable and interpretable signal on the training set{'}s coverage of those test points."}
{"Title": "How Personality Traits Influence Negotiation Outcomes? A Simulation based on Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Psychological evidence reveals the influence of personality traits on decision-making. For instance, agreeableness is generally associated with positive outcomes in negotiations, whereas neuroticism is often linked to less favorable outcomes. This paper introduces a simulation framework centered on large language model (LLM) agents endowed with synthesized personality traits. The agents negotiate within bargaining domains and possess customizable personalities and objectives. The experimental results show that the behavioral tendencies of LLM-based simulations can reproduce behavioral patterns observed in human negotiations. The contribution is twofold. First, we propose a simulation methodology that investigates the alignment between the linguistic and economic capabilities of LLM agents. Secondly, we offer empirical insights into the strategic impacts of Big Five personality traits on the outcomes of bilateral negotiations. We also provide an in-depth analysis based on simulated bargaining dialogues to reveal intriguing behaviors, including deceitful and compromising behaviors."}
{"Title": "Introducing Spatial Information and a Novel Evaluation Scheme for Open-Domain Live Commentary Generation", "Abstract": "This paper focuses on the task of open-domain live commentary generation. Compared to domain-specific work in this task, this setting proved particularly challenging due to the absence of domain-specific features. Aiming to bridge this gap, we integrate spatial information by proposing an utterance generation model with a novel spatial graph that is flexible to deal with the open-domain characteristics of the commentaries and significantly improves performance. Furthermore, we propose a novel evaluation scheme, more suitable for live commentary generation, that uses LLMs to automatically check whether generated utterances address essential aspects of the video via the answerability of questions extracted directly from the videos using LVLMs. Our results suggest that using a combination of our answerability score and a standard machine translation metric is likely a more reliable way to evaluate the performance in this task."}
{"Title": "Retrieving, Rethinking and Revising: The Chain-of-Verification Can Improve Retrieval Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Recent Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) aims to enhance Large Language Models (LLMs) by incorporating extensive knowledge retrieved from external sources. However, such approach encounters some challenges: Firstly, the original queries may not be suitable for precise retrieval, resulting in erroneous contextual knowledge; Secondly, the language model can easily generate inconsistent answer with external references due to their knowledge boundary limitation. To address these issues, we propose the chain-of-verification (CoV-RAG) to enhance the external retrieval correctness and internal generation consistency. Specifically, we integrate the verification module into the RAG, engaging in scoring, judgment, and rewriting. To correct external retrieval errors, CoV-RAG retrieves new knowledge using a revised query. To correct internal generation errors, we unify QA and verification tasks with a Chain-of-Thought (CoT) reasoning during training. Our comprehensive experiments across various LLMs demonstrate the effectiveness and adaptability compared with other strong baselines. Especially, our CoV-RAG can significantly surpass the state-of-the-art baselines using different LLM backbones."}
{"Title": "Detecting Machine-Generated Long-Form Content with Latent-Space Variables", "Abstract": "The increasing capability of large language models (LLMs) to generate fluent long-form texts is presenting new challenges in distinguishing these outputs from those of humans. Existing zero-shot detectors that primarily focus on token-level distributions are vulnerable to real-world domain shift including different decoding strategies, variations in prompts, and attacks. We propose a more robust method that incorporates abstract elements{---}such as topic or event transitions{---}as key deciding factors, by training a latent-space model on sequences of events or topics derived from human-written texts. On three different domains, machine generations which are originally inseparable from humans{'} on the token level can be better distinguished with our latent-space model, leading to a 31{\\%} improvement over strong baselines such as DetectGPT. Our analysis further reveals that unlike humans, modern LLMs such as GPT-4 selecting event triggers and transitions differently, and inherent disparity regardless of the generation configurations adopted in real-time."}
{"Title": "Learning to Match Representations is Better for End-to-End Task-Oriented Dialog System", "Abstract": "Due to the rapid development with pre-trained language models, fully end-to-end Task-Oriented Dialogue (TOD) systems exhibit superior performance. How to achieve the ability to efficiently retrieve entities in cross-domain large-scale databases is a key issue. Most existing end-to-end Task-Oriented Dialogue systems suffer from the following problems: The ability to handle erroneous but easily confused entities needs to be improved; Matching information between contexts and entities is not captured, leading to weak modeling of domain-invariant and interpretable features, making it difficult to generalize to unseen domains. In this paper, we propose a method for knowledge retrieval driven by matching representations. The approach consists of a matching signal extractor for extracting matching representations between contexts and entities that have generic conceptual features and hence domain invariant properties, and an Attribute Filter for filtering irrelevant information to facilitate the re-selection of entities. Experiments on three standard benchmarks at the dialogue level and on large knowledge bases show that our retriever performs knowledge retrieval more efficiently than existing approaches."}
{"Title": "ShieldLM: Empowering LLMs as Aligned, Customizable and Explainable Safety Detectors", "Abstract": "The safety of Large Language Models (LLMs) has gained increasing attention in recent years, but there still lacks a comprehensive approach for detecting safety issues within LLMs{'} responses in an aligned, customizable and explainable manner. In this paper, we propose ShieldLM, an LLM-based safety detector, which aligns with common safety standards, supports customizable detection rules, and provides explanations for its decisions. To train ShieldLM, we compile a large bilingual dataset comprising 14,387 query-response pairs, annotating the safety of responses based on various safety standards. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that ShieldLM surpasses strong baselines across four test sets, showcasing remarkable customizability and explainability. Besides performing well on standard detection datasets, ShieldLM has also been shown to be effective as a safety evaluator for advanced LLMs. ShieldLM is released at \\url{https://github.com/thu-coai/ShieldLM} to support accurate and explainable safety detection under various safety standards."}
{"Title": "BiasDora: Exploring Hidden Biased Associations in Vision-Language Models", "Abstract": "Existing works examining Vision-Language Models (VLMs) for social biases predominantly focus on a limited set of documented bias associations, such as gender-profession or race-crime. This narrow scope often overlooks a vast range of unexamined implicit associations, restricting the identification and, hence, mitigation of such biases. We address this gap by probing VLMs to (1) uncover hidden, implicit associations across 9 bias dimensions. We systematically explore diverse input and output modalities and (2) demonstrate how biased associations vary in their negativity, toxicity, and extremity. Our work (3) identifies subtle and extreme biases that are typically not recognized by existing methodologies. We make the **D**ataset **o**f **r**etrieved **a**ssociations (**Dora**) publicly available."}
{"Title": "MoE-I^2: Compressing Mixture of Experts Models through Inter-Expert Pruning and Intra-Expert Low-Rank Decomposition", "Abstract": "The emergence of Mixture of Experts (MoE) LLMs has significantly advanced the development of language models. Compared to traditional LLMs, MoE LLMs outperform traditional LLMs by achieving higher performance with considerably fewer activated parameters. Despite this efficiency, their enormous parameter size still leads to high deployment costs. In this paper, we introduce a two-stage compression method tailored for MoE to reduce the model size and decrease the computational cost. First, in the inter-expert pruning stage, we analyze the importance of each layer and propose the Layer-wise Genetic Search and Block-wise KT-Reception Field with the non-uniform pruning ratio to prune the individual expert. Second, in the intra-expert decomposition stage, we apply the low-rank decomposition to further compress the parameters within the remaining experts. Extensive experiments on Qwen1.5-MoE-A2.7B, Deepseek-V2-Lite, and Mixtral-8$\\times$7B, demonstrate that our proposed methods can both reduce the model size and enhance inference efficiency while maintaining performance in various zero-shot tasks."}
{"Title": "Multimodal Misinformation Detection by Learning from Synthetic Data with Multimodal LLMs", "Abstract": "Detecting multimodal misinformation, especially in the form of image-text pairs, is crucial. Obtaining large-scale, high-quality real-world fact-checking datasets for training detectors is costly, leading researchers to use synthetic datasets generated by AI technologies. However, the generalizability of detectors trained on synthetic data to real-world scenarios remains unclear due to the distribution gap. To address this, we propose learning from synthetic data for detecting real-world multimodal misinformation through two model-agnostic data selection methods that match synthetic and real-world data distributions. Experiments show that our method enhances the performance of a small MLLM (13B) on real-world fact-checking datasets, enabling it to even surpass GPT-4V."}
{"Title": "Exploring Design Choices for Building Language-Specific LLMs", "Abstract": "Despite rapid progress in large language models (LLMs), their performance on a vast majority of languages remains unsatisfactory. In this paper, we study building language-specific LLMs by adapting monolingual and multilingual LLMs. We conduct systematic experiments on how design choices (base model selection, vocabulary extension, and continued pretraining) impact the adapted LLM, both in terms of efficiency (how many tokens are needed to encode the same amount of information) and end task performance. We find that (1) the initial performance of LLM does not always correlate with the final performance after the adaptation. Adapting an English-centric models can yield better results than adapting multilingual models despite their worse initial performance on low-resource languages. (2) Efficiency can easily improved with simple vocabulary extension and continued pretraining in most LLMs we study, and (3) The optimal adaptation method (choice of the base model, new vocabulary size, training data, initialization strategy) is highly language-dependent, and the simplest embedding initialization works well across various experimental settings. Together, our work lays foundations on efficiently building language-specific LLMs by adapting existing LLMs."}
{"Title": "Promoting Data and Model Privacy in Federated Learning through Quantized LoRA", "Abstract": "Conventional federated learning primarily aims to secure the privacy of data distributed across multiple edge devices, with the global model dispatched to edge devices for parameter updates during the learning process. However, the development of large language models (LLMs) requires substantial data and computational resources, rendering them valuable intellectual properties for their developers and owners. To establish a mechanism that protects both data and model privacy in a federated learning context, we introduce a method that just needs to distribute a quantized version of the model{'}s parameters during training. This method enables accurate gradient estimations for parameter updates while preventing clients from accessing a model whose performance is comparable to the centrally hosted one. Moreover, we combine this quantization strategy with LoRA, a popular and parameter-efficient fine-tuning method, to significantly reduce communication costs in federated learning. The proposed framework, named FedLPP, successfully ensures both data and model privacy in the federated learning context. Additionally, the learned central model exhibits good generalization and can be trained in a resource-efficient manner."}
{"Title": "Intended Target Identification for Anomia Patients with Gradient-based Selective Augmentation", "Abstract": "In this study, we investigate the potential of language models (LMs) in aiding patients experiencing anomia, a difficulty identifying the names of items. Identifying the intended target item from patient{'}s circumlocution involves the two challenges of term failure and error. (1) The terms relevant to identifying the item remain unseen. (2) What makes the challenge unique is inherent perturbed terms by semantic paraphasia, which are not exactly related to the target item, hindering the identification process. To address each, we propose robustifying the model from semantically paraphasic errors and enhancing the model with unseen terms with gradient-based selective augmentation (GradSelect). Specifically, the gradient value controls augmented data quality amid semantic errors, while the gradient variance guides the inclusion of unseen but relevant terms. Due to limited domain-specific datasets, we evaluate the model on the Tip of the Tongue dataset as an intermediary task and then apply our findings to real patient data from AphasiaBank. Our results demonstrate strong performance against baselines, aiding anomia patients by addressing the outlined challenges."}
{"Title": "Fine-tuning Smaller Language Models for Question Answering over Financial Documents", "Abstract": "Recent research has shown that smaller language models can acquire substantial reasoning abilities when fine-tuned with reasoning exemplars crafted by a significantly larger teacher model. We explore this paradigm for the financial domain, focusing on the challenge of answering questions that require multi-hop numerical reasoning over financial texts. We assess the performance of several smaller models that have been fine-tuned to generate programs that encode the required financial reasoning and calculations. Our findings demonstrate that these fine-tuned smaller models approach the performance of the teacher model.To provide a granular analysis of model performance, we propose an approach to investigate the specific student model capabilities that are enhanced by fine-tuning. Our empirical analysis indicates that fine-tuning refines the student models ability to express and apply the required financial concepts along with adapting the entity extraction for the specific data format. In addition, we hypothesize and demonstrate that comparable financial reasoning capability can be induced using relatively smaller datasets."}
{"Title": "Beyond Fine-tuning: Unleashing the Potential of Continuous Pretraining for Clinical LLMs.", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated significant potential in revolutionizing clinical applications. In this study, we investigate the efficacy of four techniques in adapting LLMs for clinical use-cases: continuous pretraining, instruct fine-tuning, NEFTune, and prompt engineering. We employ these methods on Mistral 7B and Mixtral 8x7B models, leveraging a large-scale clinical pretraining dataset of 50 billion tokens and an instruct fine-tuning dataset of 500 million tokens. Our evaluation across various clinical tasks reveals nuanced insights. While continuous pretraining beyond 250 billion tokens yields marginal improvements, instruct fine-tuning emerges as a more influential factor. Notably, NEFTune, designed primarily to enhance generation quality, surprisingly demonstrates additional gains on our benchmark. These findings underscore the importance of tailoring fine-tuning strategies and exploring innovative techniques to optimize LLM performance in the clinical domain."}
{"Title": "MedCare: Advancing Medical LLMs through Decoupling Clinical Alignment and Knowledge Aggregation", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have shown substantial progress in natural language understanding and generation, proving valuable especially in the medical field. Despite advancements, challenges persist due to the complexity and diversity inherent in medical tasks, which can be categorized as knowledge-intensive tasks and alignment-required tasks. Previous approaches either ignore the latter task or focus on a minority of tasks and hence lose generalization. To address these drawbacks, we propose a progressive fine-tuning pipeline. This pipeline employs a and a to encode diverse knowledge in the first stage and filter out detrimental information. In the second stage, we drop the to avoid the interference of suboptimal representation and leverage an additional alignment module optimized towards an orthogonal direction to the knowledge space to mitigate knowledge forgetting. Based on this two-stage paradigm, we proposed a \\textbf{Med}ical LLM through decoupling \\textbf{C}linical \\textbf{A}lignment and Knowledge Agg\\textbf{re}gation (), which is designed to achieve promising performance on over 20 medical tasks, as well as results on specific medical alignment tasks. Various model sizes of (1.8B, 7B, 14B) all demonstrate significant improvements over existing models with similar model sizes. Our code and datasets are available at \\url{https://github.com/BlueZeros/MedCare}."}
{"Title": "Interpretable Preferences via Multi-Objective Reward Modeling and Mixture-of-Experts", "Abstract": "Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) has emerged as the primary method for aligning large language models (LLMs) with human preferences. The RLHF process typically starts by training a reward model (RM) using human preference data. Conventional RMs are trained on pairwise responses to the same user request, with relative ratings indicating which response humans prefer. The trained RM serves as a proxy for human preferences. However, due to the black-box nature of RMs, their outputs lack interpretability, as humans cannot intuitively understand why an RM thinks a response is good or not. As RMs act as human preference proxies, it is desirable for them to be human-interpretable to ensure that their internal decision processes are consistent with human preferences and to prevent reward hacking in LLM alignment. To build RMs with interpretable preferences, we propose a two-stage approach: i) train an Absolute-Rating Multi-Objective Reward Model (ArmoRM) with multi-dimensional absolute-rating data, each dimension corresponding to a human-interpretable objective (e.g., honesty, verbosity, safety); ii) employ a Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) strategy with a gating network that automatically selects the most suitable reward objectives based on the context. We efficiently trained an ArmoRM with Llama-3 8B and a gating network consisting of a shallow MLP on top of the ArmoRM. Our trained model, ArmoRM-Llama3-8B, obtains state-of-the-art performance on RewardBench, a benchmark evaluating RMs for language modeling. Notably, the performance of our model surpasses the LLM-as-a-judge method with GPT-4 judges by a margin, and approaches the performance of the much larger Nemotron-4 340B reward model."}
{"Title": "Code Membership Inference for Detecting Unauthorized Data Use in Code Pre-trained Language Models", "Abstract": "Code pre-trained language models (CPLMs) have received great attention since they can benefit various tasks that facilitate software development and maintenance. However, CPLMs are trained on massive open-source code, raising concerns about potential data infringement. This paper launches the study of detecting unauthorized code use in CPLMs, i.e., Code Membership Inference (CMI) task. We design a framework Buzzer for different settings of CMI. Buzzer deploys several inference techniques, including signal extraction from pre-training tasks, hard-to-learn sample calibration and weighted inference, to identify code membership status accurately. Extensive experiments show that CMI can be achieved with high accuracy using Buzzer. Hence, Buzzer can serve as a CMI tool and help protect intellectual property rights. The implementation of Buzzer is available at: https://github.com/KDEGroup/Buzzer"}
{"Title": "Learning When to Retrieve, What to Rewrite, and How to Respond in Conversational QA", "Abstract": "Augmenting Large Language Models (LLMs) with information retrieval capabilities (i.e., Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)) has proven beneficial for knowledge-intensive tasks. However, understanding users{'} contextual search intent when generating responses is an understudied topic for conversational question answering (QA). This conversational extension leads to additional concerns when compared to single-turn QA as it is more challenging for systems to comprehend conversational context and manage retrieved passages over multiple turns. In this work, we propose a method for enabling LLMs to decide when to retrieve in RAG settings given a conversational context. When retrieval is deemed necessary, the LLM then rewrites the conversation for passage retrieval and judges the relevance of returned passages before response generation. Operationally, we build on the single-turn SELF-RAG framework (Asai et al., 2023) and propose SELF-multi-RAG for conversational settings. SELF-multi-RAG demonstrates improved capabilities over single-turn variants with respect to retrieving relevant passages (by using summarized conversational context) and assessing the quality of generated responses. Experiments on three conversational QA datasets validate the enhanced response generation capabilities of SELF-multi-RAG with improvements of {\\textasciitilde}13{\\%} measured by human annotation."}
{"Title": "Beyond Natural Language: LLMs Leveraging Alternative Formats for Enhanced Reasoning and Communication", "Abstract": "Natural language (NL) has long been the predominant format for human cognition and communication, and by extension, has been similarly pivotal in the development and application of Large Language Models (LLMs). Yet, besides NL, LLMs have seen various non-NL formats during pre-training, such as code and logical expression. NL{'}s status as the optimal format for LLMs, particularly in single-LLM reasoning and multi-agent communication, has not been thoroughly examined. In this work, we challenge the default use of NL by exploring the utility of non-NL formats in these contexts. We show that allowing LLMs to autonomously select the most suitable format before reasoning or communicating leads to a 3.3 to 5.7{\\%} improvement in reasoning efficiency for different LLMs, and up to a 72.7{\\%} reduction in token usage in multi-agent communication, all while maintaining communicative effectiveness. Our comprehensive analysis further reveals that LLMs can devise a format from limited task instructions and that the devised format is effectively transferable across different LLMs. Intriguingly, the structured communication format decided by LLMs exhibits notable parallels with established agent communication languages, suggesting a natural evolution towards efficient, structured communication in agent communication. Our code will be released to facilitate further exploration."}
{"Title": "Learning to Use Tools via Cooperative and Interactive Agents", "Abstract": "Tool learning empowers large language models (LLMs) as agents to use external tools and extend their utility. Existing methods employ one single LLM-based agent to iteratively select and execute tools, thereafter incorporating execution results into the next action prediction. Despite their progress, these methods suffer from performance degradation when addressing practical tasks due to: (1) the pre-defined pipeline with restricted flexibility to calibrate incorrect actions, and (2) the struggle to adapt a general LLM-based agent to perform a variety of specialized actions. To mitigate these problems, we propose ConAgents, a Cooperative and interactive Agents framework, which coordinates three specialized agents for tool selection, tool execution, and action calibration separately. ConAgents introduces two communication protocols to enable the flexible cooperation of agents. To effectively generalize the ConAgents into open-source models, we also propose specialized action distillation, enhancing their ability to perform specialized actions in our framework. Our extensive experiments on three datasets show that the LLMs, when equipped with the ConAgents, outperform baselines with substantial improvement (i.e., up to 14{\\%} higher success rate)."}
{"Title": "STARD: A Chinese Statute Retrieval Dataset Derived from Real-life Queries by Non-professionals", "Abstract": "Statute retrieval aims to find relevant statutory articles for specific queries. This process is the basis of a wide range of legal applications such as legal advice, automated judicial decisions, legal document drafting, etc. Existing statute retrieval benchmarks emphasize formal and professional queries from sources like bar exams and legal case documents, thereby neglecting non-professional queries from the general public, which often lack precise legal terminology and references. To address this gap, we introduce the STAtute Retrieval Dataset (STARD), a Chinese dataset comprising 1,543 query cases collected from real-world legal consultations and 55,348 candidate statutory articles. Unlike existing statute retrieval datasets, which primarily focus on professional legal queries, STARD captures the complexity and diversity of real queries from the general public. Through a comprehensive evaluation of various retrieval baselines, we reveal that existing retrieval approaches all fall short of these real queries issued by non-professional users. The best method only achieves a Recall@100 of 0.907, suggesting the necessity for further exploration and additional research in this area."}
{"Title": "What if...?: Thinking Counterfactual Keywords Helps to Mitigate Hallucination in Large Multi-modal Models", "Abstract": "This paper presents a way of enhancing the reliability of Large Multi-modal Models (LMMs) in addressing hallucination, where the models generate cross-modal inconsistent responses. Without additional training, we propose Counterfactual Inception, a novel method that implants counterfactual thinking into LMMs using self-generated counterfactual keywords. Our method is grounded in the concept of counterfactual thinking, a cognitive process where human considers alternative realities, enabling more extensive context exploration. Bridging the human cognition mechanism into LMMs, we aim for the models to engage with and generate responses that span a wider contextual scene understanding, mitigating hallucinatory outputs. We further introduce Plausibility Verification Process (PVP), a simple yet robust keyword constraint that effectively filters out sub-optimal keywords to enable the consistent triggering of counterfactual thinking in the model responses. Comprehensive analyses across various LMMs, including both open-source and proprietary models, corroborate that counterfactual thinking significantly reduces hallucination and helps to broaden contextual understanding based on true visual clues."}
{"Title": "MELT: Materials-aware Continued Pre-training for Language Model Adaptation to Materials Science", "Abstract": "We introduce a novel continued pre-training method, MELT (MatEriaLs-aware continued pre-Training), specifically designed to efficiently adapt the pre-trained language models (PLMs) for materials science. Unlike previous adaptation strategies that solely focus on constructing domain-specific corpus, MELT comprehensively considers both the corpus and the training strategy, given that materials science corpus has distinct characteristics from other domains. To this end, we first construct a comprehensive materials knowledge base from the scientific corpus by building semantic graphs. Leveraging this extracted knowledge, we integrate a curriculum into the adaptation process that begins with familiar and generalized concepts and progressively moves toward more specialized terms. We conduct extensive experiments across diverse benchmarks to verify the effectiveness and generality of MELT. A comprehensive evaluation convincingly supports the strength of MELT, demonstrating superior performance compared to existing continued pre-training methods. In-depth analysis also shows that MELT enables PLMs to effectively represent materials entities compared to the existing adaptation methods, thereby highlighting its broad applicability across a wide spectrum of materials science."}
{"Title": "PDF-to-Tree: Parsing PDF Text Blocks into a Tree", "Abstract": "In many PDF documents, the reading order of text blocks is missing, which can hinder machine understanding of the document{'}s content.Existing works try to extract one universal reading order for a PDF file.However, applications, like Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), require breaking long articles into sections and subsections for better indexing.For this reason, this paper introduces a new task and dataset, PDF-to-Tree, which organizes the text blocks of a PDF into a tree structure.Since a PDF may contain thousands of text blocks, far exceeding the number of words in a sentence, this paper proposes a transition-based parser that uses a greedy strategy to build the tree structure.Compared to parser for plain text, we also use multi-modal features to encode the parser state.Experiments show that our approach achieves an accuracy of 93.93{\\%}, surpassing the performance of baseline methods by an improvement of 6.72{\\%}."}
{"Title": "Seeing Through VisualBERT: A Causal Adventure on Memetic Landscapes", "Abstract": "Detecting offensive memes is crucial, yet standard deep neural network systems often remain opaque. Various input attribution-based methods attempt to interpret their behavior, but they face challenges with implicitly offensive memes and non-causal attributions. To address these issues, we propose a framework based on a Structural Causal Model (SCM). In this framework, VisualBERT is trained to predict the class of an input meme based on both meme input and causal concepts, allowing for transparent interpretation. Our qualitative evaluation demonstrates the framework{'}s effectiveness in understanding model behavior, particularly in determining whether the model was right due to the right reason, and in identifying reasons behind misclassification. Additionally, quantitative analysis assesses the significance of proposed modelling choices, such as de-confounding, adversarial learning, and dynamic routing, and compares them with input attribution methods. Surprisingly, we find that input attribution methods do not guarantee causality within our framework, raising questions about their reliability in safety-critical applications. The project page is at: https://newcodevelop.github.io/causality{\\_}adventure/"}
{"Title": "Cross-Lingual Unlearning of Selective Knowledge in Multilingual Language Models", "Abstract": "Pretrained language models memorize vast amounts of information, including private and copyrighted data, raising significant safety concerns. Retraining these models after excluding sensitive data is prohibitively expensive, making machine unlearning a viable, cost-effective alternative. Previous research has focused on machine unlearning for monolingual models, but we find that unlearning in one language does not necessarily transfer to others. This vulnerability makes models susceptible to low-resource language attacks, where sensitive information remains accessible in less dominant languages. This paper presents a pioneering approach to machine unlearning for multilingual language models, selectively erasing information across different languages while maintaining overall performance. Specifically, our method employs an adaptive unlearning scheme that assigns language-dependent weights to address different language performances of multilingual language models. Empirical results demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework compared to existing unlearning baselines, setting a new standard for secure and adaptable multilingual language models."}
{"Title": "LLaMAX: Scaling Linguistic Horizons of LLM by Enhancing Translation Capabilities Beyond 100 Languages", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate remarkable translation capabilities in high-resource language tasks, yet their performance in low-resource languages is hindered by insufficient multilingual data during pre-training. To address this, we conduct extensive multilingual continual pre-training on the LLaMA series models, enabling translation support across more than 100 languages. Through a comprehensive analysis of training strategies, such as vocabulary expansion and data augmentation, we develop LLaMAX. Remarkably, without sacrificing its generalization ability, LLaMAX achieves significantly higher translation performance compared to existing open-source LLMs (by more than 10 spBLEU points) and performs on-par with specialized translation model (M2M-100-12B) on the Flores-101 benchmark. Extensive experiments indicate that LLaMAX can serve as a robust multilingual foundation model. The code and the models are publicly available."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Emotion-Cause Pair Extraction in Conversations via Center Event Detection and Reasoning", "Abstract": "Emotion-Cause Pair Extraction in Conversations (ECPEC) aims to identify emotion utterances and their corresponding cause utterances in unannotated conversations, this task that has garnered increasing attention recently. Previous methods often apply Emotion-Cause Pair Extraction (ECPE) task models, treating the entire conversation as a whole for contextual interaction. However, statistical analysis shows that the number of emotion-cause pairs in ECPEC conversation data far exceeds that in ECPE datasets, leading to interference among multiple events within a conversation and causing noise to propagate between different events. To address this issue, we propose a novel CEnter eveNT-guided framEwoRk (CENTER). This model introduces a Center Event Detection task to construct a center event-aware graph that captures the unique representations of different event regions. Additionally, mimicking human reasoning processes, we build a center event reasoning graph and use graph neural network to facilitate the flow of information between utterance pairs, thereby uncovering the relationships between emotions and their causes. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance across three benchmark datasets."}
{"Title": "Light-weight Fine-tuning Method for Defending Adversarial Noise in Pre-trained Medical Vision-Language Models", "Abstract": "Fine-tuning pre-trained Vision-Language Models (VLMs) has shown remarkable capabilities in medical image and textual depiction synergy. Nevertheless, many pre-training datasets are restricted by patient privacy concerns, potentially containing noise that can adversely affect downstream performance. Moreover, the growing reliance on multi-modal generation exacerbates this issue because of its susceptibility to adversarial attacks. To investigate how VLMs trained on adversarial noisy data perform on downstream medical tasks, we first craft noisy upstream datasets using multi-modal adversarial attacks. Through our comprehensive analysis, we unveil that moderate noise enhances model robustness and transferability, but increasing noise levels negatively impact downstream task performance. To mitigate this issue, we propose rectify adversarial noise (RAN) framework, a recipe designed to effectively defend adversarial attacks and rectify the influence of upstream noise during fine-tuning."}
{"Title": "Together We Can: Multilingual Automatic Post-Editing for Low-Resource Languages", "Abstract": "This exploratory study investigates the potential of multilingual Automatic Post-Editing (APE) systems to enhance the quality of machine translations for low-resource Indo-Aryan languages. Focusing on two closely related language pairs, English-Marathi and English-Hindi, we exploit the linguistic similarities to develop a robust multilingual APE model. To facilitate cross-linguistic transfer, we generate synthetic Hindi-Marathi and Marathi-Hindi APE triplets. Additionally, we incorporate a Quality Estimation (QE)-APE multi-task learning framework. While the experimental results underline the complementary nature of APE and QE, we also observe that QE-APE multitask learning facilitates effective domain adaptation. Our experiments demonstrate that the multilingual APE models outperform their corresponding English-Hindi and English-Marathi single-pair models by 2.5 and 2.39 TER points, respectively, with further notable improvements over the multilingual APE model observed through multi-task learning ($+1.29$ and $+1.44$ TER points), data augmentation ($+0.53$ and $+0.45$ TER points) and domain adaptation ($+0.35$ and $+0.45$ TER points). We release the synthetic data, code, and models accrued during this study publicly for further research."}
{"Title": "CERT-ED: Certifiably Robust Text Classification for Edit Distance", "Abstract": "With the growing integration of AI in daily life, ensuring the robustness of systems to inference-time attacks is crucial. Among the approaches for certifying robustness to such adversarial examples, randomized smoothing has emerged as highly promising due to its nature as a wrapper around arbitrary black-box models. Previous work on randomized smoothing in natural language processing has primarily focused on specific subsets of edit distance operations, such as synonym substitution or word insertion, without exploring the certification of all edit operations. In this paper, we adapt Randomized Deletion (Huang et al., 2023) and propose, CERTified Edit Distance defense (CERT-ED) for natural language classification. Through comprehensive experiments, we demonstrate that CERT-ED outperforms the existing Hamming distance method RanMASK (Zeng et al., 2023) in 4 out of 5 datasets in terms of both accuracy and the cardinality of the certificate. By covering various threat models, including 5 direct and 5 transfer attacks, our method improves empirical robustness in 38 out of 50 settings."}
{"Title": "Ask-before-Plan: Proactive Language Agents for Real-World Planning", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "From Complex to Simple: Enhancing Multi-Constraint Complex Instruction Following Ability of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "It is imperative for Large language models (LLMs) to follow instructions with elaborate requirements (i.e. Complex Instructions Following). Yet, it remains under-explored how to enhance the ability of LLMs to follow complex instructions with multiple constraints. To bridge the gap, we initially study what training data is effective in enhancing complex constraints following abilities. We found that training LLMs with instructions containing multiple constraints enhances their understanding of complex instructions, especially those with lower complexity levels. Additionally, we further propose methods addressing how to obtain and utilize the effective training data. Finally, we conduct extensive experiments to prove the effectiveness of our methods in terms of overall performance and training efficiency. We also demonstrate that our methods improve models{'} ability to follow instructions generally and generalize effectively across out-of-domain, in domain, and adversarial settings, while maintaining general capabilities."}
{"Title": "FlowBench: Revisiting and Benchmarking Workflow-Guided Planning for LLM-based Agents", "Abstract": "LLM-based agents have emerged as promising tools, which are crafted to fulfill complex tasks by iterative planning and action. However, these agents are susceptible to undesired planning hallucinations when lacking specific knowledge for expertise-intensive tasks. To address this, preliminary attempts are made to enhance planning reliability by incorporating external workflow-related knowledge. Despite the promise, such infused knowledge is mostly disorganized and diverse in formats, lacking rigorous formalization and comprehensive comparisons. Motivated by this, we formalize different formats of workflow knowledge and present FlowBench, the first benchmark for workflow-guided planning. FlowBench covers 51 different scenarios from 6 domains, with knowledge presented in diverse formats. To assess different LLMs on FlowBench, we design a multi-tiered evaluation framework. We evaluate the efficacy of workflow knowledge across multiple formats, and the results indicate that current LLM agents need considerable improvements for satisfactory planning. We hope that our challenging benchmark can pave the way for future agent planning research."}
{"Title": "Mental Disorder Classification via Temporal Representation of Text", "Abstract": "Mental disorders pose a global challenge, aggravated by the shortage of qualified mental health professionals. Mental disorder prediction from social media posts by current LLMs is challenging due to the complexities of sequential text data and the limited context length of language models. Current language model-based approaches split a single data instance into multiple chunks to compensate for limited context size. The predictive model is then applied to each chunk individually, and the most voted output is selected as the final prediction. This results in the loss of inter-post dependencies and important time variant information, leading to poor performance. We propose a novel framework which first compresses the large sequence of chronologically ordered social media posts into a series of numbers. We then use this time variant representation for mental disorder classification. We demonstrate the generalization capabilities of our framework by outperforming the current SOTA in three different mental conditions: depression, self-harm, and anorexia, by an absolute improvement of 5{\\%} in the F1 score. We also investigate the situation when current data instances fall within the context length of language models and present empirical results highlighting the importance of temporal properties of textual data. Furthermore, we utilize the proposed framework for a cross-domain study, exploring commonalities across disorders and the possibility of inter-domain data usage."}
{"Title": "Beyond Single-Audio: Advancing Multi-Audio Processing in Audio Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Various audio-LLMs (ALLMs) have been explored recently for tackling different audio tasks simultaneously using a single, unified model. While existing evaluations of ALLMs primarily focus on single-audio tasks, real-world applications often involve processing multiple audio streams simultaneously. To bridge this gap, we propose the first multi-audio evaluation (MAE) benchmark that consists of 20 datasets from 11 multi-audio tasks encompassing both speech and sound scenarios. Comprehensive experiments on MAE demonstrate that the existing ALLMs, while being powerful in comprehending primary audio elements in individual audio inputs, struggling to handle multi-audio scenarios. To this end, we propose a novel multi-audio-LLM (MALLM) to capture audio context among multiple similar audios using discriminative learning on our proposed synthetic data. The results demonstrate that the proposed MALLM outperforms all baselines and achieves high data efficiency using synthetic data without requiring human annotations. The proposed MALLM opens the door for ALLMs towards multi-audio processing era and brings us closer to replicating human auditory capabilities in machines."}
{"Title": "Multimodal Procedural Planning via Dual Text-Image Prompting", "Abstract": "Embodied agents have achieved prominent performance in following human instructions to complete tasks. However, the potential of providing instructions informed by texts and images to assist humans in completing tasks remains underexplored. To uncover this capability, we present the multimodal procedural planning (MPP) task, in which models are given a high-level goal and generate plans of paired text-image steps, providing more complementary and informative guidance than unimodal plans. The key challenges of MPP are to ensure the informativeness, temporal coherence,and accuracy of plans across modalities. To tackle this, we propose Text-Image Prompting (TIP), a dual-modality prompting method that jointly leverages zero-shot reasoning ability in large language models (LLMs) and compelling text-to-image generation ability from diffusion-based models. TIP improves the interaction in the dual modalities using Text-to-Image Bridge and Image-to-Text Bridge, allowing LLMs to guide the textual-grounded image plan generation and leveraging the descriptions of image plans to ground the textual plan reversely. To address the lack of relevant datasets, we collect WIKIPLAN and RECIPEPLAN as a testbed for MPP. Our results show compelling human preferences and automatic scores against unimodal and multimodal baselines on WIKIPLAN and RECIPEPLAN in terms of informativeness, temporal coherence, and plan accuracy."}
{"Title": "Functionality learning through specification instructions", "Abstract": "Test suites assess natural language processing models{'} performance on specific functionalities: cases of interest involving model robustness, fairness, or particular linguistic capabilities. This paper introduces specification instructions: text descriptions specifying fine-grained task-specific behaviors. For each functionality in a suite, we generate an instruction that describes it. We combine the specification instructions to create specification-augmented prompts, which we feed to language models pre-trained on natural instruction data.We conduct experiments to measure how optimizing for some functionalities may negatively impact functionalities that are not covered by the specification set. Our analyses across four tasks and models of diverse sizes and families show that smaller models struggle to follow specification instructions. However, larger models ({\\textgreater} 3B params.) can benefit from specifications and{---}surprisingly{---}even generalize certain desirable behaviors across functionalities."}
{"Title": "DictDis: Dictionary Constrained Disambiguation for Improved NMT", "Abstract": "Domain-specific neural machine translation (NMT) systems (, in educational applications) are socially significant with the potential to help make information accessible to a diverse set of users in multilingual societies. Such NMT systems should be lexically constrained and draw from domain-specific dictionaries. Dictionaries could present multiple candidate translations for a source word/phrase due to the polysemous nature of words. The onus is then on the NMT model to choose the contextually most appropriate candidate. Prior work has largely ignored this problem and focused on the single candidate constraint setting wherein the target word or phrase is replaced by a single constraint. In this work, we present DictDis, a lexically constrained NMT system that disambiguates between multiple candidate translations derived from dictionaries. We achieve this by augmenting training data with multiple dictionary candidates to actively encourage disambiguation during training by implicitly aligning multiple candidate constraints. We demonstrate the utility of DictDis via extensive experiments on English-Hindi, English-German, and English-French datasets across a variety of domains including regulatory, finance, engineering, health and standard benchmark test datasets. In comparison with existing approaches for lexically constrained and unconstrained NMT, we demonstrate superior performance for the copy constraint and disambiguation-related measures on all domains, while also obtaining improved fluency of up to 2-3 BLEU points on some domains. We also release our test set consisting of 4K English-Hindi sentences in multiple domains."}
{"Title": "Fighting Randomness with Randomness: Mitigating Optimisation Instability of Fine-Tuning using Delayed Ensemble and Noisy Interpolation", "Abstract": "While fine-tuning of pre-trained language models generally helps to overcome the lack of labelled training samples, it also displays model performance instability. This instability mainly originates from randomness in initialisation or data shuffling. To address this, researchers either modify the training process or augment the available samples, which typically results in increased computational costs. We propose a new mitigation strategy, called **Delayed Ensemble with Noisy Interpolation (DENI)**, that leverages the strengths of ensembling, noise regularisation and model interpolation, while retaining computational efficiency. We compare DENI with 9 representative mitigation strategies across 3 models, 4 tuning strategies and 7 text classification datasets. We show that: 1) DENI outperforms the best performing mitigation strategy (Ensemble), while using only a fraction of its cost; 2) the mitigation strategies are beneficial for parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods, outperforming full fine-tuning in specific cases; and 3) combining DENI with data augmentation often leads to even more effective instability mitigation."}
{"Title": "Rethinking Code Refinement: Learning to Judge Code Efficiency", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive capabilities in understanding and generating codes. Due to these capabilities, many recent methods are proposed to automatically refine the codes with LLMs. However, we should rethink that the refined codes (from LLMs and even humans) are not always more efficient than their original versions. On the other hand, running two different versions of codes and comparing them every time is not ideal and time-consuming. Therefore, in this work, we propose a novel method based on the code language model that is trained to judge the efficiency between two different codes (generated across humans and machines) by either classifying the superior one or predicting the relative improvement. We validate our method on multiple programming languages with multiple refinement steps, demonstrating that the proposed method can effectively distinguish between more and less efficient versions of code."}
{"Title": "Selection-p: Self-Supervised Task-Agnostic Prompt Compression for Faithfulness and Transferability", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive capabilities in a wide range of natural language processing tasks when leveraging in-context learning. To mitigate the additional computational and financial costs associated with in-context learning, several prompt compression methods have been proposed to compress the in-context learning prompts. Despite their success, these methods face challenges with transferability due to model-specific compression, or rely on external training data, such as GPT-4. In this paper, we investigate the ability of LLMs to develop a unified compression method that discretizes uninformative tokens, utilizing a self-supervised pre-training technique. By introducing a small number of parameters during the continual pre-training, the proposed Selection-p produces a probability for each input token, indicating whether to preserve or discard it. Experiments show Selection-p achieves state-of-the-art performance across numerous classification tasks, achieving compression rates of up to 10 times while experiencing only a marginal 0.8{\\%} decrease in performance. Moreover, it exhibits superior transferability to different models compared to prior work. Additionally, we further analyze how Selection-p helps maintain performance on in-context learning with long contexts."}
{"Title": "Adaptive Token Biaser: Knowledge Editing via Biasing Key Entities", "Abstract": "The parametric knowledge memorized by large language models (LLMs) becomes outdated quickly. In-context editing (ICE) is currently the most effective method for updating the knowledge of LLMs. Recent advancements involve enhancing ICE by modifying the decoding strategy, obviating the need for altering internal model structures or adjusting external prompts.However, this enhancement operates across the entire sequence generation, encompassing a plethora of non-critical tokens.In this work, we introduce **A**daptive **T**oken **Bias**er (ATBias), a new decoding technique designed to enhance ICE.It focuses on the tokens that are mostly related to knowledge during decoding, biasing their logits by matching key entities related to new and parametric knowledge.Experimental results show that ATBias significantly enhances ICE performance, achieving up to a 32.3{\\%} improvement over state-of-the-art ICE methods while incurring only half the latency.ATBias not only improves the knowledge editing capabilities of ICE but can also be widely applied to LLMs with negligible cost."}
{"Title": "Improving Factual Consistency of News Summarization by Contrastive Preference Optimization", "Abstract": "Despite the recent progress in news summarization made by large language models (LLMs), they often generate summaries that are factually inconsistent with original articles, known as {``}hallucinations{''} in text generation. Unlike previous small models (e.g., BART, T5), current LLMs make fewer silly mistakes but more sophisticated ones, such as imposing cause and effect, adding false details, overgeneralizing, etc. These hallucinations are challenging to detect through traditional methods, which poses great challenges for improving the factual consistency of text summarization. In this paper, we propose Contrastive Preference Optimization (CPO) to disentangle the LLMs{'} propensities to generate faithful and fake content. Furthermore, we adopt a probing-based specific training method to improve their capacity of distinguishing two types of propensities. In this way, LLMs can execute the instructions more accurately and have enhanced perception of hallucinations. Experimental results show that CPO significantly improves the reliability of summarization based on LLMs."}
{"Title": "AlanaVLM: A Multimodal Embodied AI Foundation Model for Egocentric Video Understanding", "Abstract": "AI personal assistants deployed via robots or wearables require embodied understanding to collaborate with humans effectively. However, current Vision-Language Models (VLMs) primarily focus on third-person view videos, neglecting the richness of egocentric perceptual experience. To address this gap, we propose three key contributions. First, we introduce the Egocentric Video Understanding Dataset (EVUD) for training VLMs on video captioning and question answering tasks specific to egocentric videos. Second, we present , a 7B parameter VLM trained using parameter-efficient methods on EVUD. Finally, we evaluate {`}s capabilities on OpenEQA, a challenging benchmark for embodied video question answering. Our model achieves state-of-the-art performance, outperforming open-source models including strong Socratic models using GPT-4 as a planner by 3.6{\\%}.Additionally, we outperform Claude 3 and Gemini Pro Vision 1.0 and showcase competitive results compared to Gemini Pro 1.5 and GPT-4V, even surpassing the latter in spatial reasoning. This research paves the way for building efficient VLMs that can be deployed in robots or wearables, leveraging embodied video understanding to collaborate seamlessly with humans in everyday tasks, contributing to the advancement of next-generation Embodied AI."}
{"Title": "Platform-Invariant Topic Modeling via Contrastive Learning to Mitigate Platform-Induced Bias", "Abstract": "Cross-platform topic dissemination is one of the research subjects that delved into media analysis; sometimes it fails to grasp the authentic topics due to platform-induced biases, which may be caused by aggregating documents from multiple platforms and running them on an existing topic model. This work deals with the impact of unique platform characteristics on the performance of topic models and proposes a new approach to enhance the effectiveness of topic modeling. The data utilized in this study consisted of a total of 1.5 million posts collected using the keyword {''}ChatGPT{''} on the three social media platforms. The devised model reduces platform influence in topic models by developing a platform-invariant contrastive learning algorithm and removing platform-specific jargon word sets. The proposed approach was thoroughly validated through quantitative and qualitative experiments alongside standard and state-of-the-art topic models and showed its supremacy. This method can mitigate biases arising from platform influences when modeling topics from texts collected across various platforms."}
{"Title": "MAVEN-FACT: A Large-scale Event Factuality Detection Dataset", "Abstract": "Event Factuality Detection (EFD) task determines the factuality of textual events, i.e., classifying whether an event is a fact, possibility, or impossibility, which is essential for faithfully understanding and utilizing event knowledge. However, due to the lack of high-quality large-scale data, event factuality detection is under-explored in event understanding research, which limits the development of EFD community. To address these issues and provide faithful event understanding, we introduce MAVEN-FACT, a large-scale and high-quality EFD dataset based on the MAVEN dataset. MAVEN-FACT includes factuality annotations of 112,276 events, making it the largest EFD dataset. Extensive experiments demonstrate that MAVEN-FACT is challenging for both conventional fine-tuned models and large language models (LLMs). Thanks to the comprehensive annotations of event arguments and relations in MAVEN, MAVEN-FACT also supports some further analyses and we find that adopting event arguments and relations helps in event factuality detection for fine-tuned models but does not benefit LLMs. Furthermore, we preliminarily study an application case of event factuality detection and find it helps in mitigating event-related hallucination in LLMs. We will release our dataset and codes to facilitate further research on event factuality detection."}
{"Title": "Retrieval-Augmented Code Generation for Situated Action Generation: A Case Study on Minecraft", "Abstract": "In the Minecraft Collaborative Building Task, two players collaborate: an Architect (A) provides instructions to a Builder (B) to assemble a specified structure using 3D blocks. In this work, we investigate the use of large language models (LLMs) to predict the sequence of actions taken by the Builder. Leveraging LLMs{'} in-context learning abilities, we use few-shot prompting techniques, that significantly improve performance over baseline methods. Additionally, we present a detailed analysis of the gaps in performance for future work."}
{"Title": "Make Compound Sentences Simple to Analyze: Learning to Split Sentences for Aspect-based Sentiment Analysis", "Abstract": "In the domain of Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis (ABSA), generative methods have shown promising results and achieved substantial advancements. However, despite these advancements, the tasks of extracting sentiment quadruplets, which capture the nuanced sentiment expressions within a sentence, remain significant challenges. In particular, compound sentences can potentially contain multiple quadruplets, making the extraction task increasingly difficult as sentence complexity grows. To address this issue, we are focusing on simplifying sentence structures to facilitate the easier recognition of these elements and crafting a model that integrates seamlessly with various ABSA tasks. In this paper, we propose Aspect Term Oriented Sentence Splitter (ATOSS), which simplifies compound sentence into simpler and clearer forms, thereby clarifying their structure and intent. As a plug-and-play module, this approach retains the parameters of the ABSA model while making it easier to identify essential intent within input sentences. Extensive experimental results show that utilizing ATOSS outperforms existing methods in both ASQP and ACOS tasks, which are the primary tasks for extracting sentiment quadruplets"}
{"Title": "LLMs-as-Instructors: Learning from Errors Toward Automating Model Improvement", "Abstract": "This paper introduces the innovative {``}LLMs-as-Instructors{''} framework, which leverages the advanced Large Language Models (LLMs) to autonomously enhance the training of smaller target models. Inspired by the theory of {``}Learning from Errors{''}, this framework employs an instructor LLM to meticulously analyze the specific errors within a target model, facilitating targeted and efficient training cycles. Within this framework, we implement two strategies: {``}Learning from Error,{''} which focuses solely on incorrect responses to tailor training data, and {``}Learning from Error by Contrast,{''} which uses contrastive learning to analyze both correct and incorrect responses for a deeper understanding of errors. Our empirical studies, conducted with several open-source models, demonstrate significant improvements across multiple benchmarks, including mathematical reasoning, coding abilities, and factual knowledge. Notably, the refined Llama-3-8b-Instruction has outperformed ChatGPT, illustrating the effectiveness of our approach. By leveraging the strengths of both strategies, we have attained a more balanced performance improvement on both in-domain and out-of-domain benchmarks."}
{"Title": "ITER: Iterative Transformer-based Entity Recognition and Relation Extraction", "Abstract": "When extracting structured information from text, recognizing entities and extracting relationships are essential. Recent advances in both tasks generate a structured representation of the information in an autoregressive manner, a time-consuming and computationally expensive approach. This naturally raises the question of whether autoregressive methods are necessary in order to achieve comparable results. In this work, we propose ITER, an efficient encoder-based relation extraction model, that performs the task in three parallelizable steps, greatly accelerating a recent language modeling approach: ITER achieves an inference throughput of over 600 samples per second for a large model on a single consumer-grade GPU. Furthermore, we achieve state-of-the-art results on the relation extraction datasets ADE and ACE05, and demonstrate competitive performance for both named entity recognition with GENIA and CoNLL03, and for relation extraction with SciERC and CoNLL04."}
{"Title": "Zero-shot Persuasive Chatbots with LLM-Generated Strategies and Information Retrieval", "Abstract": "Persuasion plays a pivotal role in a wide range of applications from health intervention to the promotion of social good. Persuasive chatbots employed responsibly for social good can be an enabler of positive individual and social change. Existing methods rely on fine-tuning persuasive chatbots with task-specific training data which is costly, if not infeasible, to collect. Furthermore, they employ only a handful of pre-defined persuasion strategies. We propose PersuaBot, a zero-shot chatbot based on Large Language Models (LLMs) that is factual and more persuasive by leveraging many more nuanced strategies. PersuaBot uses an LLM to first generate a natural responses, from which the strategies used are extracted. To combat hallucination of LLMs, Persuabot replace any unsubstantiated claims in the response with retrieved facts supporting the extracted strategies. We applied our chatbot, PersuaBot, to three significantly different domains needing persuasion skills: donation solicitation, recommendations, and health intervention. Our experiments on simulated and human conversations show that our zero-shot approach is more persuasive than prior work, while achieving factual accuracy surpassing state-of-the-art knowledge-oriented chatbots."}
{"Title": "Logits Reranking via Semantic Labels for Hard Samples in Text Classification", "Abstract": "Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs) have achieved significant success in text classification. However, they still face challenges with hard samples, which refer to instances where the model exhibits diminished confidence in distinguishing new samples. Existing research has addressed related issues, but often overlooks the semantic information inherent in the labels, treating them merely as one-hot vectors. In this paper, we propose Logits Reranking via Semantic Labels (LRSL), a model-agnostic post-processing method that leverages label semantics and auto detection of hard samples to improve classification accuracy. LRSL automatically identifies hard samples, which are then jointly processed by MLP-based and Similarity-based approaches. Applied only during inference, LRSL operates solely on classification logits, reranking them based on semantic similarities without interfering with the model{'}s training process. The experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our method, showing significant improvements across different PLMs. Our codes are publicly available at https://github.com/SIGSDSscau/LRSL."}
{"Title": "Scaling Laws for Fact Memorization of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Fact knowledge memorization is crucial for Large Language Models (LLM) to generate factual and reliable responses. However, the behaviors of LLM fact memorization remain under-explored. In this paper, we analyze the scaling laws for LLM{'}s fact knowledge and LLMs{'} behaviors of memorizing different types of facts. We find that LLMs{'} fact knowledge capacity has a linear and negative exponential law relationship with model size and training epochs, respectively. Estimated by the built scaling law, memorizing the whole Wikidata{'}s facts requires training an LLM with 1000B non-embed parameters for 100 epochs, suggesting that using LLMs to memorize all public facts is almost implausible for a general pre-training setting. Meanwhile, we find that LLMs can generalize on unseen fact knowledge and its scaling law is similar to general pre-training. Additionally, we analyze the compatibility and preference of LLMs{'} fact memorization. For compatibility, we find LLMs struggle with memorizing redundant facts in a unified way. Only when correlated facts have the same direction and structure, the LLM can compatibly memorize them. This shows the inefficiency of LLM memorization for redundant facts. For preference, the LLM pays more attention to memorizing more frequent and difficult facts, and the subsequent facts can overwrite prior facts{'} memorization, which significantly hinders low-frequency facts memorization. Our findings reveal the capacity and characteristics of LLMs{'} fact knowledge learning, which provide directions for LLMs{'} fact knowledge augmentation."}
{"Title": "Breaking the Script Barrier in Multilingual Pre-Trained Language Models with Transliteration-Based Post-Training Alignment", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Leveraging Web-Crawled Data for High-Quality Fine-Tuning", "Abstract": "Most large language models are fine-tuned using either expensive human-annotated data or GPT-4 generated data which cannot guarantee performance in certain domains. We argue that although the web-crawled data often has formatting errors causing semantic inaccuracies, it can still serve as a valuable source for high-quality supervised fine-tuning in specific domains without relying on advanced models like GPT-4. To this end, we create a paired training dataset automatically by aligning web-crawled data with a smaller set of high-quality data. By training a language model on this dataset, we can convert web data with irregular formats into high-quality ones. Our experiments show that training with the model-transformed data yields better results, surpassing training with only high-quality data by an average score of 9.4{\\%} in Chinese math problems. Additionally, our 7B model outperforms several open-source models larger than 32B and surpasses well-known closed-source models such as GPT-3.5, highlighting the efficacy of our approach. We have released our code at https://github.com/zhouj8553/Web{\\_}to{\\_}SFT."}
{"Title": "Designing Logic Pattern Templates for Counter-Argument Logical Structure Analysis", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Optimize Weight Rounding via Signed Gradient Descent for the Quantization of LLMs", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional proficiency in language-related tasks, but their deployment poses significant challenges due to substantial memory and storage requirements. Weight-only quantization has emerged as a promising solution to address these challenges. Previous research suggests that fine-tuning through up and down rounding can enhance performance. In this study, we introduce SignRound, a method that utilizes signed gradient descent (SignSGD) to optimize rounding values and weight clipping within just 200 steps. SignRound integrates the advantages of Quantization-Aware Training (QAT) and Post-Training Quantization (PTQ), achieving exceptional results across 2 to 4 bits while maintaining low tuning costs and avoiding additional inference overhead. For example, SignRound achieves absolute average accuracy improvements ranging from 6.91{\\%} to 33.22{\\%} at 2 bits, as measured by the average zero-shot accuracy across 11 tasks. It also demonstrates strong generalization to recent models, achieving near-lossless 4-bit quantization in most scenarios. The source code will be made publicly available."}
{"Title": "Using LLMs to simulate students' responses to exam questions", "Abstract": "Previous research leveraged Large Language Models (LLMs) in numerous ways in the educational domain. Here, we show that they can be used to answer exam questions simulating students of different skill levels and share a prompt, engineered for GPT-3.5, that enables the simulation of varying student skill levels on questions from different educational domains. We evaluate the proposed prompt on three publicly available datasets (one from science exams and two from English reading comprehension exams) and three LLMs (two versions of GPT-3.5 and one of GPT-4), and show that it is robust to different educational domains and capable of generalising to data unseen during the prompt engineering phase. We also show that, being engineered for a specific version of GPT-3.5, the prompt does not generalise well to different LLMs, stressing the need for prompt engineering for each model in practical applications. Lastly, we find that there is not a direct correlation between the quality of the rationales obtained with chain-of-thought prompting and the accuracy in the student simulation task."}
{"Title": "HSDreport: Heart Sound Diagnosis with Echocardiography Reports", "Abstract": "Heart sound auscultation holds significant importance in the diagnosis of congenital heart disease. However, existing methods for Heart Sound Diagnosis (HSD) tasks are predominantly limited to a few fixed categories, framing the HSD task as a rigid classification problem that does not fully align with medical practice and offers only limited information to physicians. Besides, such methods do not utilize echocardiography reports, the gold standard in the diagnosis of related diseases. To tackle this challenge, we introduce HSDreport, a new benchmark for HSD, which mandates the direct utilization of heart sounds obtained from auscultation to predict echocardiography reports. This benchmark aims to merge the convenience of auscultation with the comprehensive nature of echocardiography reports. First, we collect a new dataset for this benchmark, comprising 2,275 heart sound samples along with their corresponding reports. Subsequently, we develop a knowledge-aware query-based transformer to handle this task. The intent is to leverage the capabilities of medically pre-trained models and the internal knowledge of large language models (LLMs) to address the task{'}s inherent complexity and variability, thereby enhancing the robustness and scientific validity of the method. Furthermore, our experimental results indicate that our method significantly outperforms traditional HSD approaches and existing multimodal LLMs in detecting key abnormalities in heart sounds."}
{"Title": "Repairing Catastrophic-Neglect in Text-to-Image Diffusion Models via Attention-Guided Feature Enhancement", "Abstract": "Text-to-Image Diffusion Models (T2I DMs) have garnered significant attention for their ability to generate high-quality images from textual descriptions.However, these models often produce images that do not fully align with the input prompts, resulting in semantic inconsistencies.The most prominent issue among these semantic inconsistencies is catastrophic-neglect, where the images generated by T2I DMs miss key objects mentioned in the prompt.We first conduct an empirical study on this issue, exploring the prevalence of catastrophic-neglect, potential mitigation strategies with feature enhancement, and the insights gained.Guided by the empirical findings, we propose an automated repair approach named Patcher to address catastrophic-neglect in T2I DMs.Specifically, Patcher first determines whether there are any neglected objects in the prompt, and then applies attention-guided feature enhancement to these neglected objects, resulting in a repaired prompt.Experimental results on three versions of Stable Diffusion demonstrate that Patcher effectively repairs the issue of catastrophic-neglect, achieving 10.1{\\%}-16.3{\\%} higher Correct Rate in image generation compared to baselines."}
{"Title": "Where Visual Speech Meets Language: VSP-LLM Framework for Efficient and Context-Aware Visual Speech Processing", "Abstract": "In visual speech processing, context modeling capability is one of the most important requirements due to the ambiguous nature of lip movements. For example, homophenes, words that share identical lip movements but produce different sounds, can be distinguished by considering the context. In this paper, we propose a novel framework, namely Visual Speech Processing incorporated with LLMs (VSP-LLM), to maximize the context modeling ability by bringing the overwhelming power of LLMs. Specifically, VSP-LLM is designed to perform multi-tasks of visual speech recognition and translation, where the given instructions control the type of task. The input video is mapped to the input latent space of an LLM by employing a self-supervised visual speech model. Focused on the fact that there is redundant information in input frames, we propose a novel deduplication method that reduces the embedded visual features by employing visual speech units. Through the proposed deduplication and low rank adaptation, VSP-LLM can be trained in a computationally efficient manner. In the translation dataset, the MuAViC benchmark, we demonstrate that VSP-LLM trained on just 30 hours of labeled data can more effectively translate compared to the recent model trained with 433 hours of data."}
{"Title": "MDCR: A Dataset for Multi-Document Conditional Reasoning", "Abstract": "The same real-life questions posed to different individuals may lead to different answers based on their unique situations. For instance, whether a student is eligible for a scholarship depends on eligibility conditions, such as major or degree required. ConditionalQA was proposed to evaluate models{'} capability of reading a document and answering eligibility questions, considering *unmentioned* conditions. However, it is limited to questions on single documents, neglecting harder cases that may require *cross-document reasoning* and *optimization*, for example, {``}What is the maximum number of scholarships attainable?{''} Such questions over multiple documents are not only more challenging due to more context to understand, but also because the model has to (1) explore all possible combinations of unmentioned conditions and (2) understand the relationship between conditions across documents, to reason about the optimal outcome. To evaluate models{'} capability of answering such questions, we propose a new dataset MDCR, which can reflect real-world challenges and serve as a new test bed for complex conditional reasoning that requires optimization. We evaluate this dataset using the most recent LLMs and demonstrate their limitations in solving this task. We believe this dataset will facilitate future research in answering optimization questions with unknown conditions."}
{"Title": "Will LLMs Sink or Swim? Exploring Decision-Making Under Pressure", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated their ability to simulate human-like decision-making, yet the impact of psychological pressures on their decision-making processes remains underexplored. To understand how psychological pressures influence decision-making in LLMs, we tested LLMs on various high-level tasks, using both explicit and implicit pressure prompts. Moreover, we examined LLM responses under different personas to compare with human behavior under pressure. Our findings show that pressures significantly affect LLMs{'} decision-making, varying across tasks and models. Persona-based analysis suggests some models exhibit human-like sensitivity to pressure, though with some variability. Furthermore, by analyzing both the responses and reasoning patterns, we identified the values LLMs prioritize under specific social pressures. These insights deepen our understanding of LLM behavior and demonstrate the potential for more realistic social simulation experiments."}
{"Title": "Zero-shot Commonsense Reasoning over Machine Imagination", "Abstract": "Recent approaches to zero-shot commonsense reasoning have enabled Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs) to learn a broad range of commonsense knowledge without being tailored to specific situations. However, they often suffer from human reporting bias inherent in textual commonsense knowledge, leading to discrepancies in understanding between PLMs and humans. In this work, we aim to bridge this gap by introducing an additional information channel to PLMs. We propose Imagine (Machine Imagination-based Reasoning), a novel zero-shot commonsense reasoning framework designed to complement textual inputs with visual signals derived from machine-generated images. To achieve this, we enhance PLMs with imagination capabilities by incorporating an image generator into the reasoning process. To guide PLMs in effectively leveraging machine imagination, we create a synthetic pre-training dataset that simulates visual question-answering. Our extensive experiments on diverse reasoning benchmarks and analysis show that Imagine outperforms existing methods by a large margin, highlighting the strength of machine imagination in mitigating reporting bias and enhancing generalization capabilities."}
{"Title": "A Framework of Knowledge Graph-Enhanced Large Language Model Based on Question Decomposition and Atomic Retrieval", "Abstract": "Knowledge graphs (KGs) can provide explainable reasoning for large language models (LLMs), alleviating their hallucination problem. Knowledge graph question answering (KGQA) is a typical benchmark to evaluate the methods enhancing LLMs with KG. Previous methods on KG-enhanced LLM for KGQA either enhance LLMs with KG retrieval in a single round or perform multi-hop KG reasoning in multiple rounds with LLMs. Both of them conduct retrieving and reasoning based solely on the whole original question, without any processing to the question. To tackle this limitation, we propose a framework of KG-enhanced LLM based on question decomposition and atomic retrieval, called KELDaR. We introduce question decomposition tree as the framework for LLM reasoning. This approach extracts the implicit information of reasoning steps within complex questions, serving as a guide to facilitate atomic retrieval on KG targeting the atomic-level simple questions at leaves of the tree. Additionally, we design strategies for atomic retrieval, which extract and retrieve question-relevant KG subgraphs to assist the few-shot LLM in answering atomic-level questions. Experiments on KGQA datasets demonstrate that our framework outperforms existing reasoning-based baselines. And in a low-cost setting without additional training or fine-tuning, our framework achieves competitive or superior results compared to most existing training-based baselines."}
{"Title": "Vanessa: Visual Connotation and Aesthetic Attributes Understanding Network for Multimodal Aspect-based Sentiment Analysis", "Abstract": "Prevailing research concentrates on superficial features or descriptions of images, revealing a significant gap in the systematic exploration of their connotative and aesthetic attributes. Furthermore, the use of cross-modal relation detection modules to eliminate noise from comprehensive image representations leads to the omission of subtle contextual information. In this paper, we present a Visual Connotation and Aesthetic Attributes Understanding Network (Vanessa) for Multimodal Aspect-based Sentiment Analysis. Concretely, Vanessa incorporates a Multi-Aesthetic Attributes Aggregation (MA3) module that models intra- and inter-dependencies among bi-modal representations as well as emotion-laden aesthetic attributes. Moreover, we devise a self-supervised contrastive learning framework to explore the pairwise relevance between images and text via the Gaussian distribution of their CLIP scores. By dynamically clustering and merging multi-modal tokens, Vanessa effectively captures both implicit and explicit sentimental cues. Extensive experiments on widely adopted two benchmarks verify Vanessa{'}s effectiveness."}
{"Title": "Consistent Document-level Relation Extraction via Counterfactuals", "Abstract": "Many datasets have been developed to train and evaluate document-level relation extraction (RE) models. Most of these are constructed using real-world data. It has been shown that RE models trained on real-world data suffer from factual biases. To evaluate and address this issue, we present CovEReD, a counterfactual data generation approach for document-level relation extraction datasets using entity replacement. We first demonstrate that models trained on factual data exhibit inconsistent behavior: while they accurately extract triples from factual data, they fail to extract the same triples after counterfactual modification. This inconsistency suggests that models trained on factual data rely on spurious signals such as specific entities and external knowledge {--} rather than on context {--} to extract triples. We show that by generating document-level counterfactual data with CovEReD and training models on them, consistency is maintained with minimal impact on RE performance. We release our CovEReD pipeline as well as Re-DocRED-CF, a dataset of counterfactual RE documents, to assist in evaluating and addressing inconsistency in document-level RE."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Learning-Based Binary Code Similarity Detection Model through Adversarial Training with Multiple Function Variants", "Abstract": "Compared to identifying binary versions of the same function under different compilation options, existing Learning-Based Binary Code Similarity Detection (LB-BCSD) methods exhibit lower accuracy in recognizing functions with the same functionality but different implementations. To address this issue, we introduces an adversarial attack method called FuncFooler, which focuses on perturbing critical code to generate multiple variants of the same function. These variants are then used to retrain the model to enhance its robustness. Current adversarial attacks against LB-BCSD mainly draw inspiration from the FGSM (Fast Gradient Sign Method) method in the image domain, which involves generating adversarial bytes and appending them to the end of the executable file. However, this approach has a significant drawback: the appended bytes do not affect the actual code of the executable file, thus failing to create diverse code variants. To overcome this limitation, we proposes a gradient-guided adversarial attack method based on critical code{---}FuncFooler. This method designs a series of strategies to perturb the code while preserving the program{'}s semantics. Specifically, we first utilizes gradient information to locate critical nodes in the control flow graph. Then, fine-grained perturbations are applied to these nodes, including control flow, data flow, and internal node perturbations, to obtain adversarial samples. The experimental results show that the application of the FuncFooler method can increase the accuracy of the latest LB-BCSD model by 5{\\%}-7{\\%}."}
{"Title": "Ask the experts: sourcing a high-quality nutrition counseling dataset through Human-AI collaboration", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) are being employed by end-users for various tasks, including sensitive ones such as health counseling, disregarding potential safety concerns. It is thus necessary to understand how adequately LLMs perform in such domains. We conduct a case study on ChatGPT in nutrition counseling, a popular use-case where the model supports a user with their dietary struggles. We crowd-source real-world diet-related struggles, then work with nutrition experts to generate supportive text using ChatGPT. Finally, experts evaluate the safety and text quality of ChatGPT{'}s output. The result is the HAI-coaching dataset, containing {\\textasciitilde}2.4K crowdsourced dietary struggles and {\\textasciitilde}97K corresponding ChatGPT-generated and expert-annotated supportive texts. We analyse ChatGPT{'}s performance, discovering potentially harmful behaviours, especially for sensitive topics like mental health. Finally, we use HAI-coaching to test open LLMs on various downstream tasks, showing that even the latest models struggle to achieve good performance. HAI-coaching is available at https://github.com/uccollab/hai-coaching/"}
{"Title": "HealthAlignSumm : Utilizing Alignment for Multimodal Summarization of Code-Mixed Healthcare Dialogues", "Abstract": "As generative AI progresses, collaboration be-tween doctors and AI scientists is leading to thedevelopment of personalized models to stream-line healthcare tasks and improve productivity.Summarizing doctor-patient dialogues has be-come important, helping doctors understandconversations faster and improving patient care.While previous research has mostly focused ontext data, incorporating visual cues from pa-tient interactions allows doctors to gain deeperinsights into medical conditions. Most of thisresearch has centered on English datasets, butreal-world conversations often mix languagesfor better communication. To address the lackof resources for multimodal summarization ofcode-mixed dialogues in healthcare, we devel-oped the MCDH dataset. Additionally, we cre-ated HealthAlignSumm, a new model that in-tegrates visual components with the BART ar-chitecture. This represents a key advancementin multimodal fusion, applied within both theencoder and decoder of the BART model. Ourwork is the first to use alignment techniques,including state-of-the-art algorithms like DirectPreference Optimization, on encoder-decodermodels with synthetic datasets for multimodalsummarization. Through extensive experi-ments, we demonstrated the superior perfor-mance of HealthAlignSumm across severalmetrics validated by both automated assess-ments and human evaluations. The datasetMCDH and our proposed model HealthAlign-Summ will be available in this GitHub accounthttps://github.com/AkashGhosh/HealthAlignSumm-Utilizing-Alignment-for-Multimodal-Summarization-of-Code-Mixed-Healthcare-DialoguesDisclaimer: This work involves medical im-agery based on the subject matter of the topic."}
{"Title": "Revisiting the Impact of Pursuing Modularity for Code Generation", "Abstract": "Modular programming, which aims to construct the final program by integrating smaller, independent building blocks, has been regarded as a desirable practice in software development. However, with the rise of recent code generation agents built upon large language models (LLMs), a question emerges: is this traditional practice equally effective for these new tools? In this work, we assess the impact of modularity in code generation by introducing a novel metric for its quantitative measurement. Surprisingly, unlike conventional wisdom on the topic, we find that modularity is not a core factor for improving the performance of code generation models. We also explore potential explanations for why LLMs do not exhibit a preference for modular code compared to non-modular code."}
{"Title": "A Decoding Algorithm for Length-Control Summarization Based on Directed Acyclic Transformers", "Abstract": "Length-control summarization aims to condense long texts into a short one within a certain length limit. Previous approaches often use autoregressive (AR) models and treat the length requirement as a soft constraint, which may not always be satisfied. In this study, we propose a novel length-control decoding algorithm based on the directed acyclic Transformer (DAT). Our approach allows for multiple plausible sequence fragments and predicts a \\textit{path} to connect them. In addition, we propose a Sequence Maximum a Posteriori (Seq-MAP) decoding algorithm that marginalizes different possible paths and finds the most probable summary satisfying the length budget. Our algorithm is based on beam search, which further facilitates a reranker for performance improvement. Experimental results on the Gigaword dataset demonstrate our state-of-the-art performance for length-control summarization."}
{"Title": "R^2AG: Incorporating Retrieval Information into Retrieval Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Retrieval augmented generation (RAG) has been applied in many scenarios to augment large language models (LLMs) with external documents provided by retrievers. However, a semantic gap exists between LLMs and retrievers due to differences in their training objectives and architectures. This misalignment forces LLMs to passively accept the documents provided by the retrievers, leading to incomprehension in the generation process, where the LLMs are burdened with the task of distinguishing these documents using their inherent knowledge. This paper proposes R$^2$AG, a novel enhanced RAG framework to fill this gap by incorporating **R**etrieval information into **R**etrieval **A**ugmented **G**eneration. Specifically, R$^2$AG utilizes the nuanced features from the retrievers and employs a R$^2$-Former to capture retrieval information. Then, a retrieval-aware prompting strategy is designed to integrate retrieval information into LLMs{'} generation. Notably, R$^2$AG suits low-source scenarios where LLMs and retrievers are frozen. Extensive experiments across five datasets validate the effectiveness, robustness, and efficiency of R$^2$AG. Our analysis reveals that retrieval information serves as an anchor to aid LLMs in the generation process, thereby filling the semantic gap."}
{"Title": "Not (yet) the whole story: Evaluating Visual Storytelling Requires More than Measuring Coherence, Grounding, and Repetition", "Abstract": "Visual storytelling consists in generating a natural language story given a temporally ordered sequence of images. This task is not only challenging for models, but also very difficult to evaluate with automatic metrics since there is no consensus about what makes a story {`}good{'}. In this paper, we introduce a novel method that measures story quality in terms of human likeness regarding three key aspects highlighted in previous work: visual grounding, coherence, and repetitiveness. We then use this method to evaluate the stories generated by several models, showing that the foundation model LLaVA obtains the best result, but only slightly so compared to TAPM, a 50-times smaller visual storytelling model. Upgrading the visual and language components of TAPM results in a model that yields competitive performance with a relatively low number of parameters. Finally, we carry out a human evaluation study, whose results suggest that a {`}good{'} story may require more than a human-like level of visual grounding, coherence, and repetition."}
{"Title": "Gender Identity in Pretrained Language Models: An Inclusive Approach to Data Creation and Probing", "Abstract": "Pretrained language models (PLMs) have been shown to encode binary gender information of text authors, raising the risk of skewed representations and downstream harms. This effect is yet to be examined for transgender and non-binary identities, whose frequent marginalization may exacerbate harmful system behaviors. Addressing this gap, we first create TRANsCRIPT, a corpus of YouTube transcripts from transgender, cisgender, and non-binary speakers. Using this dataset, we probe various PLMs to assess if they encode the gender identity information, examining both frozen and fine-tuned representations as well as representations for inputs with author-specific words removed. Our findings reveal that PLM representations encode information for all gender identities but to different extents. The divergence is most pronounced for cis women and non-binary individuals, underscoring the critical need for gender-inclusive approaches to NLP systems."}
{"Title": "\u201cVorbesti Rom\u00e2neste?\u201d A Recipe to Train Powerful Romanian LLMs with English Instructions", "Abstract": "In recent years, Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved almost human-like performance on various tasks. While some LLMs have been trained on multilingual data, most of the training data is in English; hence, their performance in English greatly exceeds other languages. To our knowledge, we are the first to collect and translate a large collection of texts, instructions, and benchmarks and train, evaluate, and release open-source LLMs tailored for Romanian. We evaluate our methods on four different categories, including academic benchmarks, MT-Bench (manually translated), and a professionally built historical, cultural, and social benchmark adapted to Romanian. We argue for the usefulness and high performance of RoLLMs by obtaining state-of-the-art results across the board. We publicly release all resources (i.e., data, training and evaluation code, models) with the goal of supporting and encouraging research on Romanian LLMs while concurrently creating a generalizable recipe adequate for other low or less-resourced languages."}
{"Title": "Generalized Measures of Anticipation and Responsivity in Online Language Processing", "Abstract": "We introduce a generalization of classic information-theoretic measures of predictive uncertainty in online language processing, based on the simulation of expected continuations of incremental linguistic contexts. Our framework provides a formal definition of anticipatory and responsive measures, and it equips experimenters with the tools to define new, more expressive measures beyond standard next-symbol entropy and surprisal. While extracting these standard quantities from language models is convenient, we demonstrate that using Monte Carlo simulation to estimate alternative responsive and anticipatory measures pays off empirically: New special cases of our generalized formula exhibit enhanced predictive power compared to surprisal for human cloze completion probability as well as ELAN, LAN, and N400 amplitudes, and greater complementarity with surprisal in predicting reading times."}
{"Title": "Towards Effective Counter-Responses: Aligning Human Preferences with Strategies to Combat Online Trolling", "Abstract": "Trolling in online communities typically involves disruptive behaviors such as provoking anger and manipulating discussions, leading to a polarized atmosphere and emotional distress. Robust moderation is essential for mitigating these negative impacts and maintaining a healthy and constructive community atmosphere. However, effectively addressing trolls is difficult because their behaviors vary widely and require different response strategies (RSs) to counter them. This diversity makes it challenging to choose an appropriate RS for each specific situation.To address this challenge, our research investigates whether humans have preferred strategies tailored to different types of trolling behaviors.Our findings reveal a correlation between the types of trolling encountered and the preferred RS. In this paper, we introduce a methodology for generating counter-responses to trolls by recommending appropriate RSs, supported by a dataset aligning these strategies with human preferences across various troll contexts. The experimental results demonstrate that our proposed approach guides constructive discussion and reduces the negative effects of trolls, thereby enhancing the online community environment."}
{"Title": "Soda-Eval: Open-Domain Dialogue Evaluation in the age of LLMs", "Abstract": "Although human evaluation remains the gold standard for open-domain dialogue evaluation, the growing popularity of automated evaluation using Large Language Models (LLMs) has also extended to dialogue. However, most frameworks leverage benchmarks that assess older chatbots on aspects such as fluency and relevance, which are not reflective of the challenges associated with contemporary models. In fact, a qualitative analysis on Soda. (Kim et al., 2023), a GPT-3.5 generated dialogue dataset, suggests that current chatbots may exhibit several recurring issues related to coherence and commonsense knowledge, but generally produce highly fluent and relevant responses.Noting the aforementioned limitations, this paper introduces Soda-Eval, an annotated dataset based on Soda that covers over 120K turn-level assessments across 10K dialogues, where the annotations were generated by GPT-4. Using Soda-Eval as a benchmark, we then study the performance of several open-access instruction-tuned LLMs, finding that dialogue evaluation remains challenging. Fine-tuning these models improves performance over few-shot inferences, both in terms of correlation and explanation."}
{"Title": "A Comprehensive Survey of Hallucination in Large Language, Image, Video and Audio Foundation Models", "Abstract": "The rapid advancement of foundation models (FMs) across language, image, audio, and video domains has shown remarkable capabilities in diverse tasks. However, the proliferation of FMs brings forth a critical challenge: the potential to generate hallucinated outputs, particularly in high-stakes applications. The tendency of foundation models to produce hallucinated content arguably represents the biggest hindrance to their widespread adoption in real-world scenarios, especially in domains where reliability and accuracy are paramount. This survey paper presents a comprehensive overview of recent developments that aim to identify and mitigate the problem of hallucination in FMs, spanning text, image, video, and audio modalities. By synthesizing recent advancements in detecting and mitigating hallucination across various modalities, the paper aims to provide valuable insights for researchers, developers, and practitioners. Essentially, it establishes a clear framework encompassing definition, taxonomy, and detection strategies for addressing hallucination in multimodal foundation models, laying the foundation for future research and development in this pivotal area."}
{"Title": "Predicting generalization performance with correctness discriminators", "Abstract": "The ability to predict an NLP model{'}s accuracy on unseen, potentially out-of-distribution data is a prerequisite for trustworthiness. We present a novel model that establishes upper and lower bounds on the accuracy, without requiring gold labels for the unseen data. We achieve this by training a *discriminator* which predicts whether the output of a given sequence-to-sequence model is correct or not. We show across a variety of tagging, parsing, and semantic parsing tasks that the gold accuracy is reliably between the predicted upper and lower bounds, and that these bounds are remarkably close together."}
{"Title": "FastMem: Fast Memorization of Prompt Improves Context Awareness of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) excel in generating coherent text, but they often struggle with context awareness, leading to inaccuracies in tasks requiring faithful adherence to provided information. We introduce FastMem, a novel method designed to enhance instruction fine-tuned LLMs{'} context awareness through fast memorization of the prompt. FastMem maximizes the likelihood of the prompt before inference by updating only the last Feed-Forward Network (FFN) module. This targeted approach ensures efficient optimization without overfitting, significantly improving the model{'}s ability to comprehend and accurately follow the context. Our experiments demonstrate substantial gains in reading comprehension, text summarization and adherence to output structures. For instance, FastMem improves the accuracy of Llama 3-8B-Inst on the NQ-SWAP dataset from 59.1{\\%} to 71.6{\\%}, and reduces the output structure failure rate of Qwen 1.5-4B-Chat from 34.9{\\%} to 25.5{\\%}. Extensive experimental results highlight FastMem{'}s potential to offer a robust solution to enhance the reliability and accuracy of LLMs in various applications. Our code is available at: https://github.com/IAAR-Shanghai/FastMem."}
{"Title": "Towards More Robust NLP System Evaluation: Handling Missing Scores in Benchmarks", "Abstract": "The evaluation of natural language processing (NLP) systems is crucial for advancing the field, but current benchmarking approaches often assume that all systems have scores available for all tasks, which is not always practical. In reality, several factors such as the cost of running baseline, private systems, computational limitations, or incomplete data may prevent some systems from being evaluated on entire tasks. This paper formalize an existing problem in NLP research: benchmarking when some systems scores are missing on the task, and proposes a novel approach to address it. Our method utilizes a compatible partial ranking approach to impute missing data, which is then aggregated using the Borda count method. It includes two refinements designed specifically for scenarios where either task-level or instance-level scores are available. We also introduce an extended benchmark, which contains over 131 million scores, an order of magnitude larger than existing benchmarks. We validate our methods and demonstrate their effectiveness in addressing the challenge of missing system evaluation on an entire task. This work highlights the need for more comprehensive benchmarking approaches that can handle real-world scenarios where not all systems are evaluated on the entire task."}
{"Title": "Mixed-Session Conversation with Egocentric Memory", "Abstract": "Recently introduced dialogue systems have demonstrated high usability. However, they still fall short of reflecting real-world conversation scenarios. Current dialogue systems exhibit an inability to replicate the dynamic, continuous, long-term interactions involving multiple partners. This shortfall arises because there have been limited efforts to account for both aspects of real-world dialogues: deeply layered interactions over the long-term dialogue and widely expanded conversation networks involving multiple participants. As the effort to incorporate these aspects combined, we introduce Mixed-Session Conversation, a dialogue system designed to construct conversations with various partners in a multi-session dialogue setup. We propose a new dataset called MiSC to implement this system. The dialogue episodes of MiSC consist of 6 consecutive sessions, with four speakers (one main speaker and three partners) appearing in each episode. Also, we propose a new dialogue model with a novel memory management mechanism, called Egocentric Memory Enhanced Mixed-Session Conversation Agent (EMMA). EMMA collects and retains memories from the main speaker{'}s perspective during conversations with partners, enabling seamless continuity in subsequent interactions. Extensive human evaluations validate that the dialogues in MiSC demonstrate a seamless conversational flow, even when conversation partners change in each session. EMMA trained with MiSC is also evaluated to maintain high memorability without contradiction throughout the entire conversation."}
{"Title": "CSLM: A Framework for Question Answering Dataset Generation through Collaborative Small Language Models", "Abstract": "Collecting high-quality question-answer (QA) pairs is vital for the training of large language models (LLMs), yet this process is traditionally laborious and time-intensive. With the rapid evolution of LLMs, the potential for leveraging these models to autonomously generate QA pairs has become apparent, particularly through the use of large-scale models like GPT-4. However, the computational demands and associated costs often render such approaches prohibitive for the average researcher. Addressing this gap, we introduce the Collaborative Small Language Model Framework (CSLM), an innovative solution that combines a group of small-scaled, open-source LLMs to collaboratively produce QA pairs. Experiments on datasets of various domains show that CSLM unleashes the full potential of diverse small models to generate high-quality QA pairs, making it accessible to a broader range of researchers."}
{"Title": "Large Language Models Can Not Perform Well in Understanding and Manipulating Natural Language at Both Character and Word Levels?", "Abstract": "Despite their promising performance across various tasks, recent studies reveal that Large language models (LLMs) still exhibit significant deficiencies in handling several word-level and character-level tasks, e.g., word unscrambling and sentence editing, indicating urgent needs for substantial improvements in basic language understanding and manipulation. To address these challenges, it is crucial to develop large-scale benchmarks that can comprehensively assess the performance of LLMs in basic language tasks. In this paper, we introduce a bilingual benchmark, CWUM, to investigate the capabilities and limitations of LLMs in understanding and manipulating natural language at both character and word levels. CWUM consists of 15 simple text editing tasks, e.g., letter counting, word reversing, Chinese character inserting, etc. We conduct extensive experiments on eight advanced LLMs, including base models and instruction-tuned (chat) variants. The experimental results highlight significant failures of existing LLMs on CWUM tasks that humans can solve perfectly with 100{\\%} accuracy. On English tasks of CWUM, the average accuracy of GPT-4, LLaMA-3-70B, and Qwen-72B is 66.64{\\%}, 39.32{\\%}, and 33.16{\\%}, respectively, which lags far behind human performance. Instruction-tuning the base model does not lead to a distinct performance improvement, as the average accuracy of LLaMA-3-70B-Instruct on English tasks is only 1.44{\\%} higher than that of the base LLaMA-3-70B. Ultimately, we show that supervised fine-tuning (SFT) can enhance model performance on CWUM without compromising its ability to generalize across general tasks."}
{"Title": "Virtual Context Enhancing Jailbreak Attacks with Special Token Injection", "Abstract": "Jailbreak attacks on large language models (LLMs) involve inducing these models to generate harmful content that violates ethics or laws, posing a significant threat to LLM security. Current jailbreak attacks face two main challenges: low success rates due to defensive measures and high resource requirements for crafting specific prompts. This paper introduces Virtual Context, which leverages special tokens, previously overlooked in LLM security, to improve jailbreak attacks. Virtual Context addresses these challenges by significantly increasing the success rates of existing jailbreak methods and requiring minimal background knowledge about the target model, thus enhancing effectiveness in black-box settings without additional overhead. Comprehensive evaluations show that Virtual Context-assisted jailbreak attacks can improve the success rates of four widely used jailbreak methods by approximately 40{\\%} across various LLMs. Additionally, applying Virtual Context to original malicious behaviors still achieves a notable jailbreak effect. In summary, our research highlights the potential of special tokens in jailbreak attacks and recommends including this threat in red-teaming testing to comprehensively enhance LLM security."}
{"Title": "Think Twice Before Trusting: Self-Detection for Large Language Models through Comprehensive Answer Reflection", "Abstract": "Self-detection for Large Language Models (LLMs) seeks to evaluate the trustworthiness of the LLM{'}s output by leveraging its own capabilities, thereby alleviating the issue of output hallucination. However, existing self-detection approaches only retrospectively evaluate answers generated by LLM, typically leading to the over-trust in incorrectly generated answers. To tackle this limitation, we propose a novel self-detection paradigm that considers the comprehensive answer space beyond LLM-generated answers. It thoroughly compares the trustworthiness of multiple candidate answers to mitigate the over-trust in LLM-generated incorrect answers. Building upon this paradigm, we introduce a two-step framework, which firstly instructs LLM to reflect and provide justifications for each candidate answer, and then aggregates the justifications for comprehensive target answer evaluation. This framework can be seamlessly integrated with existing approaches for superior self-detection. Extensive experiments on six datasets spanning three tasks demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed framework."}
{"Title": "Automating Easy Read Text Segmentation", "Abstract": "Easy Read text is one of the main forms of access to information for people with reading difficulties. One of the key characteristics of this type of text is the requirement to split sentences into smaller grammatical segments, to facilitate reading. Automated segmentation methods could foster the creation of Easy Read content, but their viability has yet to be addressed. In this work, we study novel methods for the task, leveraging masked and generative language models, along with constituent parsing. We conduct comprehensive automatic and human evaluations in three languages, analysing the strengths and weaknesses of the proposed alternatives, under scarce resource limitations. Our results highlight the viability of automated Easy Read segmentation and remaining deficiencies compared to expert-driven human segmentation."}
{"Title": "Position Paper: Data-Centric AI in the Age of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "This position paper proposes a data-centric viewpoint of AI research, focusing on large language models (LLMs). We start by making a key observation that data is instrumental in the developmental (e.g., pretraining and fine-tuning) and inferential stages (e.g., in-context learning) of LLMs, and advocate that data-centric research should receive more attention from the community. We identify four specific scenarios centered around data, covering data-centric benchmarks and data curation, data attribution, knowledge transfer, and inference contextualization. In each scenario, we underscore the importance of data, highlight promising research directions, and articulate the potential impacts on the research community and, where applicable, the society as a whole. For instance, we advocate for a suite of data-centric benchmarks tailored to the scale and complexity of data for LLMs. These benchmarks can be used to develop new data curation methods and document research efforts and results, which can help promote openness and transparency in AI and LLM research."}
{"Title": "MATHWELL: Generating Educational Math Word Problems Using Teacher Annotations", "Abstract": "Math word problems are critical K-8 educational tools, but writing them is time consuming and requires extensive expertise. To be educational, problems must be solvable, have accurate answers, and, most importantly, be educationally appropriate. We propose that language models have potential to support K-8 math education by automatically generating word problems. However, evaluating educational appropriateness is hard to quantify. We fill this gap by having teachers evaluate problems generated by LLMs, who find existing models and data often fail to be educationally appropriate. We then explore automatically generating *educational* word problems, ultimately using our expert annotations to finetune a 70B language model. Our model, MATHWELL, is the first K-8 word problem generator targeted at educational appropriateness. Further expert studies find MATHWELL generates problems far more solvable, accurate, and appropriate than public models. MATHWELL also matches GPT-4{'}s problem quality while attaining more appropriate reading levels for K-8 students and avoiding generating harmful questions."}
{"Title": "Resilience of Large Language Models for Noisy Instructions", "Abstract": "As the rapidly advancing domain of natural language processing (NLP), large language models (LLMs) have emerged as powerful tools for interpreting human commands and generating text across various tasks. Nonetheless, the resilience of LLMs to handle text containing inherent errors, stemming from human interactions and collaborative systems, has not been thoroughly explored. Our study investigates the resilience of LLMs against five common types of disruptions including 1) ASR (Automatic Speech Recognition) errors, 2) OCR (Optical Character Recognition) errors, 3) grammatical mistakes, 4) typographical errors, and 5) distractive content. We aim to investigate how these models react by deliberately embedding these errors into instructions. Our findings reveal that while some LLMs show a degree of resistance to certain types of noise, their overall performance significantly suffers. This emphasizes the importance of further investigation into enhancing model resilience. In response to the observed decline in performance, our study also evaluates a {``}re-pass{''} strategy, designed to purify the instructions of noise before the LLMs process them. Our analysis indicates that correcting noisy instructions, particularly for open-source LLMs, presents significant challenges."}
{"Title": "LLM-TOPLA: Efficient LLM Ensemble by Maximising Diversity", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Augmenting Reasoning Capabilities of LLMs with Graph Structures in Knowledge Base Question Answering", "Abstract": "Recently, significant progress has been made in employing Large Language Models (LLMs) for semantic parsing to address Knowledge Base Question Answering (KBQA) tasks. Previous work utilize LLMs to generate query statements on Knowledge Bases (KBs) for retrieving answers. However, LLMs often generate incorrect query statements due to the lack of relevant knowledge in the previous methods. To address this, we propose a framework called Augmenting Reasoning Capabilities of LLMs with Graph Structures in Knowledge Base Question Answering (ARG-KBQA), which retrieves question-related graph structures to improve the performance of LLMs. Unlike other methods that directly retrieve relations or triples from KBs, we introduce an unsupervised two-stage ranker to perform multi-hop beam search on KBs, which could provide LLMs with more relevant information to the questions. Experimental results demonstrate that ARG-KBQA sets a new state-of-the-art on GrailQA and WebQSP under the few-shot setting. Additionally, ARG-KBQA significantly outperforms previous few-shot methods on questions with unseen query statement in the training data."}
{"Title": "Creative Problem Solving in Large Language and Vision Models - What Would it Take?", "Abstract": "We advocate for a strong integration of Computational Creativity (CC) with research in large language and vision models (LLVMs) to address a key limitation of these models, i.e., creative problem solving. We present preliminary experiments showing how CC principles can be applied to address this limitation. Our goal is to foster discussions on creative problem solving in LLVMs and CC at prestigious ML venues."}
{"Title": "Cross-Lingual Multi-Hop Knowledge Editing", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are often expected to be constantly adapted to new sources of knowledge and knowledge editing techniques aim to efficiently patch the outdated model knowledge, with minimal modification. Most prior works focus on monolingual knowledge editing in English, even though new information can emerge in any language from any part of the world. We propose the Cross-Lingual Multi-Hop Knowledge Editing paradigm, for measuring and analyzing the performance of various SoTA knowledge editing techniques in a cross-lingual setup. Specifically, we create a parallel cross-lingual benchmark, CroLin-MQuAKE for measuring the knowledge editing capabilities. Our extensive analysis over various knowledge editing techniques uncover significant gaps in performance between the cross-lingual and English-centric setting. Following this, we propose a significantly improved system for cross-lingual multi-hop knowledge editing, CLeVer-CKE. CLeVer-CKE is based on a retrieve, verify and generate knowledge editing framework, where a retriever is formulated to recall edited facts and support an LLM to adhere to knowledge edits. We develop language-aware and hard-negative based contrastive losses for improving the cross-lingual and fine-grained fact retrieval and verification process used within this framework. Extensive experiments across three LLMs, eight languages, and two datasets show the CLeVer-CKE{'}s significant gains of up to 30{\\%} over prior methods."}
{"Title": "Android in the Zoo: Chain-of-Action-Thought for GUI Agents", "Abstract": "Large language model (LLM) leads to a surge of autonomous GUI agents for smartphone, which completes a task triggered by natural language through predicting a sequence of actions of API. Even though the task highly relies on past actions and visual observations, existing studies typically consider little semantic information carried out by intermediate screenshots and screen operations. To address this, this work presents Chain-of-Action-Thought (dubbed CoAT), which takes the description of the previous actions, the current screen, and more importantly the action thinking of what actions should be performed and the outcomes led by the chosen action. We demonstrate that, in a zero-shot setting upon three off-the-shelf LMMs, CoAT significantly improves the action prediction compared to previous proposed context modeling. To further facilitate the research in this line, we construct a dataset Android-In-The-Zoo (AitZ), which contains 18,643 screen-action pairs together with chain-of-action-thought annotations. Experiments show that fine-tuning a 1B model (i.e. AUTO-UI-base) on our AitZ dataset achieves on-par performance with CogAgent-Chat-18B."}
{"Title": "Self-Recognition in Language Models", "Abstract": "A rapidly growing number of applications rely on a small set of closed-source language models (LMs). This dependency might introduce novel security risks if LMs develop self-recognition capabilities. Inspired by human identity verification methods, we propose a novel approach for assessing self-recognition in LMs using model-generated {``}security questions{''}. Our test can be externally administered to keep track of frontier models as it does not require access to internal model parameters or output probabilities. We use our test to examine self-recognition in ten of the most capable open- and closed-source LMs currently publicly available. Our extensive experiments found no empirical evidence of general or consistent self-recognition in any examined LM. Instead, our results suggest that given a set of alternatives, LMs seek to pick the {``}best{''} answer, regardless of its origin. Moreover, we find indications that preferences about which models produce the best answers are consistent across LMs. We additionally uncover novel insights on position bias considerations for LMs in multiple-choice settings."}
{"Title": "Beyond Accuracy Optimization: Computer Vision Losses for Large Language Model Fine-Tuning", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive performance across various tasks. However, current training approaches combine standard cross-entropy loss with extensive data, human feedback, or ad hoc methods to enhance performance. These solutions are often not scalable or feasible due to their associated costs, complexity, or resource requirements. This study investigates the use of established semantic segmentation loss functions in natural language generation to create a versatile, practical, and scalable solution for fine-tuning different architectures. We evaluate their effectiveness in solving Math Word Problems and question answering across different models of varying sizes. For the analyzed tasks, we found that the traditional Cross-Entropy loss represents a sub-optimal choice, while models trained to minimize alternative (task-dependent) losses, such as Focal or Lov{\\'a}sz, achieve a mean improvement of +36{\\%} on exact match without requiring additional data or human feedback. These findings suggest a promising pathway for more efficient and accessible training processes."}
{"Title": "The Shape of Word Embeddings: Quantifying Non-Isometry with Topological Data Analysis", "Abstract": "Word embeddings represent language vocabularies as clouds of $d$-dimensional points. We investigate how information is conveyed by the general shape of these clouds, instead of representing the semantic meaning of each token. Specifically, we use the notion of persistent homology from topological data analysis (TDA) to measure the distances between language pairs from the shape of their unlabeled embeddings. These distances quantify the degree of non-isometry of the embeddings. To distinguish whether these differences are random training errors or capture real information about the languages, we use the computed distance matrices to construct language phylogenetic trees over 81 Indo-European languages. Careful evaluation shows that our reconstructed trees exhibit strong and statistically-significant similarities to the reference."}
{"Title": "Towards Robust Evaluation of Unlearning in LLMs via Data Transformations", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown to be a great success in a wide range of applications ranging from regular NLP-based use cases to AI agents. LLMs have been trained on a vast corpus of texts from various sources; despite the best efforts during the data pre-processing stage while training the LLMs, they may pick some undesirable information such as personally identifiable information (PII). Consequently, in recent times research in the area of Machine Unlearning (MUL) has become active, the main idea is to force LLMs to forget (unlearn) certain information (e.g., PII) without suffering from performance loss on regular tasks. In this work, we examine the robustness of the existing MUL techniques for their ability to enable leakage-proof forgetting in LLMs. In particular, we examine the effect of data transformation on forgetting, i.e., is an unlearned LLM able to recall forgotten information if there is a change in the format of the input? Our findings on the TOFU dataset highlight the necessity of using diverse data formats to quantify unlearning in LLMs more reliably."}
{"Title": "Numbers Matter! Bringing Quantity-awareness to Retrieval Systems", "Abstract": "Quantitative information plays a crucial role in understanding and interpreting the content of documents. Many user queries contain quantities and cannot be resolved without understanding their semantics, e.g., {``}car that costs less than {\\$}10k{''}. Yet, modern search engines apply the same ranking mechanisms for both words and quantities, overlooking magnitude and unit information. In this paper, we introduce two quantity-aware ranking techniques designed to rank both the quantity and textual content either jointly or independently. These techniques incorporate quantity information in available retrieval systems and can address queries with numerical conditions equal, greater than, and less than. To evaluate the effectiveness of our proposed models, we introduce two novel quantity-aware benchmark datasets in the domains of finance and medicine and compare our method against various lexical and neural models. The code and data are available under \\url{https://github.com/satya77/QuantityAwareRankers}."}
{"Title": "Stark: Social Long-Term Multi-Modal Conversation with Persona Commonsense Knowledge", "Abstract": "Humans share a wide variety of images related to their personal experiences within conversations via instant messaging tools. However, existing works focus on (1) image-sharing behavior in singular sessions, leading to limited long-term social interaction, and (2) a lack of personalized image-sharing behavior. In this work, we introduce , a large-scale long-term multi-modal dialogue dataset that covers a wide range of social personas in a multi-modality format, time intervals, and images. To construct automatically, we propose a novel multi-modal contextualization framework, , that generates long-term multi-modal dialogue distilled from ChatGPT and our proposed image aligner. Using our , we train a multi-modal conversation model, 7B, which demonstrates impressive visual imagination ability. Furthermore, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our dataset in human evaluation. The code, dataset, and model will be publicly released after publication."}
{"Title": "Dual-Phase Accelerated Prompt Optimization", "Abstract": "Gradient-free prompt optimization methods have made significant strides in enhancing the performance of closed-source Large Language Model (LLMs) across a wide range of tasks. However, existing approaches make light of the importance of high-quality prompt initialization and the identification of effective optimization directions, thus resulting in substantial optimization steps to obtain satisfactory performance. In this light, we aim to accelerate prompt optimization process to tackle the challenge of low convergence rate. We propose a dual-phase approach which starts with generating high-quality initial prompts by adopting a well-designed meta-instruction to delve into task-specific information, and iteratively optimize the prompts at the sentence level, leveraging previous tuning experience to expand prompt candidates and accept effective ones. Extensive experiments on eight datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method, achieving a consistent accuracy gain over baselines with less than five optimization steps."}
{"Title": "ChartInsights: Evaluating Multimodal Large Language Models for Low-Level Chart Question Answering", "Abstract": "Chart question answering (ChartQA) tasks play a critical role in interpreting and extracting insights from visualization charts. While recent advancements in multimodal large language models (MLLMs) like GPT-4o have shown promise in high-level ChartQA tasks, such as chart captioning, their effectiveness in low-level ChartQA tasks (*e.g.*, identifying correlations) remains underexplored.In this paper, we address this gap by evaluating MLLMs on low-level ChartQA using a newly curated dataset, *ChartInsights*, which consists of 22,347 (chart, task, query, answer) covering 10 data analysis tasks across 7 chart types. We systematically evaluate 19 advanced MLLMs, including 12 open-source and 7 closed-source models. The average accuracy rate across these models is 39.8{\\%}, with GPT-4o achieving the highest accuracy at 69.17{\\%}.To further explore the limitations of MLLMs in low-level ChartQA, we conduct experiments that alter visual elements of charts (*e.g.*, changing color schemes, adding image noise) to assess their impact on the task effectiveness. Furthermore, we propose a new textual prompt strategy, *Chain-of-Charts*, tailored for low-level ChartQA tasks, which boosts performance by 14.41{\\%}, achieving an accuracy of 83.58{\\%}. Finally, incorporating a visual prompt strategy that directs attention to relevant visual elements further improves accuracy to 84.32{\\%}."}
{"Title": "Communicate to Play: Pragmatic Reasoning for Efficient Cross-Cultural Communication", "Abstract": "In this paper, we study how culture leads to differences in common ground and how this influences communication. During communication, cultural differences in common ground during communication may result in pragmatic failure and misunderstandings. We develop our method Rational Speech Acts for Cross-Cultural Communication (RSA+C3) to resolve cross-cultural differences in common ground. To measure the success of our method, we study RSA+C3 in the collaborative referential game of Codenames Duet and show that our method successfully improves collaboration between simulated players of different cultures. Our contributions are threefold: (1) creating Codenames players using contrastive learning of an embedding space and LLM prompting that are aligned with human patterns of play, (2) studying culturally induced differences in common ground reflected in our trained models, and (3) demonstrating that our method RSA+C3 can ease cross-cultural communication in gameplay by inferring sociocultural context from interaction."}
{"Title": "SAFARI: Cross-lingual Bias and Factuality Detection in News Media and News Articles", "Abstract": "In an era where information is quickly shared across many cultural and language contexts, the neutrality and integrity of news media are essential. Ensuring that media content remains unbiased and factual is crucial for maintaining public trust. With this in mind, we introduce SAFARI (CroSs-lingual BiAs and Factuality Detection in News MediA and News ARtIcles), a novel corpus of news media and articles for predicting political bias and the factuality of reporting in a multilingual and cross-lingual setup. To the best of our knowledge, this corpus is unprecedented in its collection and introduces a dataset for political bias and factuality for three tasks: (i) media-level, (ii) article-level, and (iii) joint modeling at the article-level. At the media and article levels, we evaluate the cross-lingual ability of the models; however, in joint modeling, we evaluate on English data. Our frameworks set a new benchmark in the cross-lingual evaluation of political bias and factuality. This is achieved through the use of various Multilingual Pre-trained Language Models (MPLMs) and Large Language Models (LLMs) coupled with ensemble learning methods."}
{"Title": "CantTalkAboutThis: Aligning Language Models to Stay on Topic in Dialogues", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in instruction-tuning datasets have predominantly focused on specific tasks like mathematical or logical reasoning. There has been a notable gap in data designed for aligning language models to maintain topic relevance in conversations - a critical aspect for deploying chatbots to production. We introduce the CantTalkAboutThis dataset to help language models remain focused on the subject at hand during task-oriented interactions. It consists of synthetic dialogues on a wide range of conversation topics from different domains. These dialogues are interspersed with distractor turns that intentionally divert the chatbot from the predefined topic. Fine-tuning language models on this dataset helps make them resilient to deviating from the assigned role and improves their ability to maintain topical coherence compared to general-purpose instruction-tuned LLMs like gpt-4-turbo and Mixtral-Instruct. Additionally, preliminary observations suggest that training models on this dataset also enhance their performance on fine-grained instruction following tasks, including safety alignment."}
{"Title": "An LLM-Enabled Knowledge Elicitation and Retrieval Framework for Zero-Shot Cross-Lingual Stance Identification", "Abstract": "Stance detection aims to identify the attitudes toward specific targets from text, which is an important research area in text mining and social media analytics. Existing research is mainly conducted in monolingual setting on English datasets. To tackle the data scarcity problem in low-resource languages, cross-lingual stance detection (CLSD) transfers the knowledge from high-resource (source) language to low-resource (target) language. The CLSD task is the most challenging in zero-shot setting when no training data is available in target language, and transferring stance-relevant knowledge learned from high-resource language to bridge the language gap is the key for improving the performance of zero-shot CLSD. In this paper, we leverage the capability of large language model (LLM) for stance knowledge acquisition, and propose KEAR, a knowledge elicitation and retrieval framework. The knowledge elicitation module in KEAR first derives different types of stance knowledge from LLM{'}s reasoning process. Then, the knowledge retrieval module in KEAR matches the target language input to the most relevant stance knowledge for enhancing text representations. Experiments on multilingual datasets show the effectiveness of KEAR compared with competitive baselines as well as the CLSD approaches trained with labeled data in target language."}
{"Title": "TuringQ: Benchmarking AI Comprehension in Theory of Computation", "Abstract": "We present TuringQ, the first benchmark designed to evaluate the reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs) in the theory of computation. TuringQ consists of 4,006 undergraduate and graduate-level question-answer pairs, categorized into four difficulty levels and covering seven core theoretical areas. We evaluate several open-source LLMs, as well as GPT-4, using Chain of Thought prompting and expert human assessment. Additionally, we propose an automated LLM-based evaluation system that demonstrates competitive accuracy when compared to human evaluation. Fine-tuning a Llama3-8B model on TuringQ shows measurable improvements in reasoning ability and out-of-domain tasks such as algebra. TuringQ serves as both a benchmark and a resource for enhancing LLM performance in complex computational reasoning tasks. Our analysis offers insights into LLM capabilities and advances in AI comprehension of theoretical computer science."}
{"Title": "Learning to Refine with Fine-Grained Natural Language Feedback", "Abstract": "Recent work has explored the capability of large language models (LLMs) to identify and correct errors in LLM-generated responses. These refinement approaches frequently evaluate what sizes of models are able to do refinement for what problems, but less attention is paid to what effective feedback for refinement looks like. In this work, we propose looking at refinement with feedback as a composition of three distinct LLM competencies: (1) detection of bad generations; (2) fine-grained natural language critique generation; (3) refining with fine-grained feedback. The first step can be implemented with a high-performing discriminative model and steps 2 and 3 can be implemented either via prompted or fine-tuned LLMs. A key property of the proposed Detect, Critique, Refine ({``}DCR{''}) method is that the step 2 critique model can give fine-grained feedback about errors, made possible by offloading the discrimination to a separate model in step 1. We show that models of different capabilities benefit from refining with DCR on the task of improving factual consistency of document grounded summaries. Overall, DCR consistently outperforms existing end-to-end refinement approaches and current trained models not fine-tuned for factuality critiquing."}
{"Title": "Implicit Personalization in Language Models: A Systematic Study", "Abstract": "Implicit Personalization (IP) is a phenomenon of language models inferring a user{'}s background from the implicit cues in the input prompts and tailoring the response based on this inference. While previous work has touched upon various instances of this problem, there lacks a unified framework to study this behavior. This work systematically studies IP through a rigorous mathematical formulation, a multi-perspective moral reasoning framework, and a set of case studies. Our theoretical foundation for IP relies on a structural causal model and introduces a novel method, indirect intervention, to estimate the causal effect of a mediator variable that cannot be directly intervened upon. Beyond the technical approach, we also introduce a set of moral reasoning principles based on three schools of moral philosophy to study when IP may or may not be ethically appropriate. Equipped with both mathematical and ethical insights, we present three diverse case studies illustrating the varied nature of the IP problem and offer recommendations for future research."}
{"Title": "When the Misidentified Adverbial Phrase Functions as a Complement", "Abstract": "This study investigates the predicate-argument structure in Korean language processing. Despite the importance of distinguishing mandatory arguments and optional modifiers in sentences, research in this area has been limited. We introduce a dataset with token-level annotations which labels mandatory and optional elements as complements and adjuncts, respectively. Particularly, we reclassify certain Korean phrases, previously misidentified as adverbial phrases, as complements, addressing misuses of the term adjunct in existing Korean treebanks. Utilizing a Korean dependency treebank, we develop an automatic labeling technique for complements and adjuncts. Experiments using the proposed dataset yield satisfying results, demonstrating that the dataset is trainable and reliable."}
{"Title": "Unveiling Implicit Table Knowledge with Question-Then-Pinpoint Reasoner for Insightful Table Summarization", "Abstract": "Implicit knowledge hidden within the explicit table cells, such as data insights, is the key to generating a high-quality table summary. However, unveiling such implicit knowledge is a non-trivial task. Due to the complex nature of structured tables, it is challenging even for large language models (LLMs) to mine the implicit knowledge in an insightful and faithful manner. To address this challenge, we propose a novel table reasoning framework Question-then-Pinpoint. Our work focuses on building a plug-and-play table reasoner that can self-question the insightful knowledge and answer it by faithfully pinpointing evidence on the table to provide explainable guidance for the summarizer. To train a reliable reasoner, we collect table knowledge by guiding a teacher LLM to follow the coarse-to-fine reasoning paths and refine it through two quality enhancement strategies to selectively distill the high-quality knowledge to the reasoner. Extensive experiments on two table summarization datasets, including our newly proposed InsTaSumm, validate the general effectiveness of our framework."}
{"Title": "Few-shot Prompting for Pairwise Ranking: An Effective Non-Parametric Retrieval Model", "Abstract": "A supervised ranking model, despite its effectiveness over traditional approaches, usually involves complex processing - typically multiple stages of task-specific pre-training and fine-tuning. This has motivated researchers to explore simpler pipelines leveraging large language models (LLMs) that can work in a zero-shot manner. However, since zero-shot inference does not make use of a training set of pairs of queries and their relevant documents, its performance is mostly worse than that of supervised models, which are trained on such example pairs. Motivated by the existing findings that training examples generally improve zero-shot performance, in our work, we explore if this also applies to ranking models. More specifically, given a query and a pair of documents, the preference prediction task is improved by augmenting examples of preferences for similar queries from a training set. Our proposed pairwise few-shot ranker demonstrates consistent improvements over the zero-shot baseline on both in-domain (TREC DL) and out-domain (BEIR subset) retrieval benchmarks."}
{"Title": "Self-training Language Models for Arithmetic Reasoning", "Abstract": "Recent language models achieve impressive results in tasks involving complex multistep reasoning, but scaling these capabilities further traditionally requires expensive collection of more annotated data.In this work, we explore the potential of improving models{'} reasoning capabilities without new data, merely using automated feedback to the validity of their predictions in arithmetic reasoning (self-training).In systematic experimentation across six different arithmetic reasoning datasets, we find that models can substantially improve in both single-round (offline) and online self-training, reaching a correct result in +13.9{\\%} and +25.9{\\%} more cases, respectively, underlining the importance of actuality of self-training feedback. We further find that in the single-round, offline self-training, traditional supervised training can deliver gains comparable to preference optimization, but in online self-training, preference optimization methods largely outperform supervised training thanks to their superior stability and robustness on unseen types of problems."}
{"Title": "PPTC-R benchmark: Towards Evaluating the Robustness of Large Language Models for PowerPoint Task Completion", "Abstract": "The growing dependence on Large Language Models (LLMs) for finishing user instructions necessitates a comprehensive understanding of their robustness to complex task completion in real-world situations. To address this critical need, we propose the PowerPoint Task Completion-Robustness (PPTC-R) benchmark to measure LLMs{'} robustness to the user PPT task instruction and software version (Powerpoint). Specifically, we construct adversarial user instructions by attacking user instructions at sentence, semantic, and multi-language levels. To assess the robustness of Language Models to software versions, we vary the number of provided APIs to simulate both the newest version and earlier version settings. Subsequently, we test 3 closed-source and 4 open-source LLMs using a benchmark that incorporates these robustness settings, aiming to evaluate how deviations impact LLMs{'} API calls for task completion. We find that GPT-4 exhibits the highest performance and strong robustness in our benchmark, particularly in the version update and the multilingual settings. However, we find that all LLMs lose their robustness when confronted with multiple challenges (e.g., multi-turn) simultaneously, leading to significant performance drops. We further analyze the robustness behavior and error reasons of LLMs in our benchmark, which provide valuable insights for researchers to understand the LLM{'}s robustness in task completion and develop more robust LLMs and agents."}
{"Title": "Efficient Pointwise-Pairwise Learning-to-Rank for News Recommendation", "Abstract": "News recommendation is a challenging task that involves personalization based on the interaction history and preferences of each user. Recent works have leveraged the power of pretrained language models (PLMs) to directly rank news items by using inference approaches that predominately fall into three categories: pointwise, pairwise, and listwise learning-to-rank. While pointwise methods offer linear inference complexity, they fail to capture crucial comparative information between items that is more effective for ranking tasks. Conversely, pairwise and listwise approaches excel at incorporating these comparisons but suffer from practical limitations: pairwise approaches are either computationally expensive or lack theoretical guarantees and listwise methods often perform poorly in practice. In this paper, we propose a novel framework for PLM-based news recommendation that integrates both pointwise relevance prediction and pairwise comparisons in a scalable manner. We present a rigorous theoretical analysis of our framework, establishing conditions under which our approach guarantees improved performance. Extensive experiments show that our approach outperforms the state-of-the-art methods on the MIND and Adressa news recommendation datasets."}
{"Title": "Fast Matrix Multiplications for Lookup Table-Quantized LLMs", "Abstract": "The deployment of large language models (LLMs) is often constrained by memory bandwidth, where the primary bottleneck is the cost of transferring model parameters from the GPU{'}s global memory to its registers. When coupled with custom kernels that fuse the dequantization and matmul operations, weight-only quantization can thus enable faster inference by reducing the amount of memory movement. However, developing high-performance kernels for weight-quantized LLMs presents substantial challenges, especially when the weights are compressed to non-evenly-divisible bit widths (e.g., 3 bits) with non-uniform, lookup table (LUT) quantization. This paper describes FLUTE, a flexible lookup table engine for LUT-quantized LLMs, which uses offline restructuring of the quantized weight matrix to minimize bit manipulations associated with unpacking, and vectorization and duplication of the lookup table to mitigate shared memory bandwidth constraints. At batch sizes {\\textless} 32 and quantization group size of 128 (typical in LLM inference), the FLUTE kernel can be 2-4x faster than existing GEMM kernels. As an application of FLUTE, we explore a simple extension to lookup table-based NormalFloat quantization and apply it to quantize LLaMA3 to various configurations, obtaining competitive quantization performance against strong baselines while obtaining an end-to-end throughput increase of 1.5 to 2 times."}
{"Title": "Distance-aware Calibration for Pre-trained Language Models", "Abstract": "Language Models for text classification often produce overconfident predictions for both in-distribution and out-of-distribution samples, i.e., the model{'}s output probabilities do not match their accuracy. Prior work showed that simple post-hoc approaches are effective for mitigating this issue, but are not robust in noisy settings, e.g., when the distribution shift is caused by spelling mistakes. In this work, we propose Distance Aware Calibration (DAC), a post-hoc approach that changes the confidence scores of a Language Model leveraging the distance between new samples been evaluated and the in-domain training set. We show that using DAC on top of a Language Model can improve in-domain calibration, robustness to different kind of distribution shift and also the model{'}s ability to detect out-of-distribution samples. We provide an extensive evaluation on common text classification benchmark for both calibration and out-of-distribution detection tasks."}
{"Title": "Language Models are Surprisingly Fragile to Drug Names in Biomedical Benchmarks", "Abstract": "Medical knowledge is context-dependent and requires consistent reasoning across various natural language expressions of semantically equivalent phrases. This is particularly crucial for drug names, where patients often use brand names like Advil or Tylenol instead of their generic equivalents. To study this, we create a new robustness dataset, \\textbf{RABBITS}, to evaluate performance differences on medical benchmarks after swapping brand and generic drug names using physician expert annotations.We assess both open-source and API-based LLMs on MedQA and MedMCQA, revealing a consistent performance drop ranging from 1-10{\\%}. Furthermore, we identify a potential source of this fragility as the contamination of test data in widely used pre-training datasets."}
{"Title": "To Err Is Human, but Llamas Can Learn It Too", "Abstract": "This study explores enhancing grammatical error correction (GEC) through automatic error generation (AEG) using language models (LMs). Specifically, we fine-tune Llama 2 LMs for error generation and find that this approach yields synthetic errors akin to human errors. Next, we train GEC Llama models using these artificial errors and outperform previous state-of-the-art error correction models, with gains ranging between 0.8 and 6 F0.5 points across all tested languages (German, Ukrainian, and Estonian). Moreover, we demonstrate that generating errors by fine-tuning smaller sequence-to-sequence models and prompting large commercial LMs (GPT3.5 and GPT4) also results in synthetic errors beneficially affecting error generation models. We openly release trained models for error generation and correction as well as all the synthesized error datasets for the covered languages."}
{"Title": "PizzaCommonSense: A Dataset for Commonsense Reasoning about Intermediate Steps in Cooking Recipes", "Abstract": "Understanding procedural texts, such as cooking recipes, is essential for enabling machines to follow instructions and reason about tasks, a key aspect of intelligent reasoning. In cooking, these instructions can be interpreted as a series of modifications to a food preparation.For a model to effectively reason about cooking recipes, it must accurately discern and understand the inputs and outputs of intermediate steps within the recipe.We present a new corpus of cooking recipes enriched with descriptions of intermediate steps that describe the input and output for each step. PizzaCommonsense serves as a benchmark for the reasoning capabilities of LLMs because it demands rigorous explicit input-output descriptions to demonstrate the acquisition of implicit commonsense knowledge, which is unlikely to beeasily memorized. GPT-4 achieves only 26{\\%} human-evaluated preference for generations, leaving room for future improvements."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Discourse Dependency Parsing with Sentence Dependency Parsing: A Unified Generative Method Based on Code Representation", "Abstract": "Due to the high complexity of Discourse Dependency Parsing (DDP) tasks, their existing annotation resources are relatively scarce compared to other NLP tasks, and different DDP tasks also have significant differences in annotation schema. These issues have led to the dilemma of low resources for DDP tasks. Thanks to the powerful capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) in cross-task learning, we can use LLMs to model dependency parsing under different annotation schema in an unified manner, in order to alleviate the dilemma of low resources for DDP tasks. However, enabling LLMs to deeply comprehend dependency parsing tasks is a challenge that remains underexplored. Inspired by the application of code-based methods in complex tasks, we propose a code-based unified dependency parsing method. We treat the process of dependency parsing as a search process of dependency paths and use code to represent this search process. Furthermore, we use a curriculum-learning based instruction tuning strategy for joint training of multiple dependency parsing tasks. The experimental results show that our proposed code-based DDP system has achieved good performance on two Chinese DDP tasks (especially significant improvement on the DDP task with relatively less training data)."}
{"Title": "\u201cKnowing When You Don't Know\u201d: A Multilingual Relevance Assessment Dataset for Robust Retrieval-Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) grounds Large Language Model (LLM) output by leveraging external knowledge sources to reduce factual hallucinations. However, prior work lacks a comprehensive evaluation of different language families, making it challenging to evaluate LLM robustness against errors in external retrieved knowledge. To overcome this, we establish **NoMIRACL**, a human-annotated dataset for evaluating LLM robustness in RAG across 18 typologically diverse languages. NoMIRACL includes both a non-relevant and a relevant subset. Queries in the non-relevant subset contain passages judged as non-relevant, whereas queries in the relevant subset include at least a single judged relevant passage. We measure relevance assessment using: (i) *hallucination rate*, measuring model tendency to hallucinate when the answer is not present in passages in the non-relevant subset, and (ii) *error rate*, measuring model inaccuracy to recognize relevant passages in the relevant subset. In our work, we observe that most models struggle to balance the two capacities. Models such as LLAMA-2 and Orca-2 achieve over 88{\\%} hallucination rate on the non-relevant subset. Mistral and LLAMA-3 hallucinate less but can achieve up to a 74.9{\\%} error rate on the relevant subset. Overall, GPT-4 is observed to provide the best tradeoff on both subsets, highlighting future work necessary to improve LLM robustness. NoMIRACL dataset and evaluation code are available at: https://github.com/project-miracl/nomiracl."}
{"Title": "Diverse and Effective Synthetic Data Generation for Adaptable Zero-Shot Dialogue State Tracking", "Abstract": "We demonstrate substantial performance gains in zero-shot dialogue state tracking (DST) by enhancing training data diversity through synthetic data generation.Existing DST datasets are severely limited in the number of application domains and slot types they cover due to the high costs of data collection, restricting their adaptability to new domains.This work addresses this challenge with a novel, fully automatic data generation approach that creates synthetic zero-shot DST datasets.Distinguished from previous methods, our approach can generate dialogues across a massive range of application domains, complete with silver-standard dialogue state annotations and slot descriptions.This technique is used to create the D0T dataset for training zero-shot DST models, encompassing an unprecedented 1,000+ domains. Experiments on the MultiWOZ benchmark show that training models on diverse synthetic data improves Joint Goal Accuracy by 6.7{\\%}, achieving results competitive with models 13.5 times larger than ours."}
{"Title": "Can We Instruct LLMs to Compensate for Position Bias?", "Abstract": "Position bias in large language models (LLMs) leads to difficulty in accessing information retrieved from the retriever, thus downgrading the effectiveness of Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) approaches in open-question answering. Recent studies reveal that this bias is related to disproportional attention across the context. In this work, we examine how to direct LLMs to allocate more attention towards a selected segment of the context through prompting, aiming to compensate for the shortage of attention. We find that language models do not have relative position awareness of the context but can be directed by promoting instruction with an exact document index. Our analysis contributes to a deeper understanding of position bias in LLMs and provides a pathway to mitigate this bias by instruction, thus benefiting LLMs in locating and utilizing relevant information from retrieved documents in RAG applications. The code and data in our study have been made publicly available."}
{"Title": "Textual Dataset Distillation via Language Model Embedding", "Abstract": "Dataset distillation is a process aimed at condensing datasets while preserving essential characteristics. In the text domain, prevailing methods typically generate distilled data as embedding vectors, which are not human-readable. This approach simplifies optimization but limits the transferability of distilled data across different model architectures. To address this limitation, we introduce a model-agnostic, data-efficient method that leverages Language Model (LM) embeddings. Compared to parameter-efficient methods such as LORA, our approach achieves comparable performance with significantly faster processing times. We evaluate our methodology through classification tasks on datasets like IMDB and AG-News, demonstrating performance that is on par with or exceeds previous model-dependent techniques. By utilizing LM embeddings, our method offers enhanced flexibility and improved transferability, expanding the range of potential applications."}
{"Title": "TARA: Token-level Attribute Relation Adaptation for Multi-Attribute Controllable Text Generation", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "AuriSRec: Adversarial User Intention Learning in Sequential Recommendation", "Abstract": "With recommender systems broadly deployed in various online platforms, many efforts have been devoted to learning user preferences and building effective sequential recommenders. However, existing work mainly focuses on capturing user implicit preferences from historical interactions and simply matching them with the next behavior, instead of predicting user explicit intentions. This may lead to inappropriate recommendations. In light of this issue, we propose the adversarial user intention learning approach for sequential recommendaiton, named AuriSRec. The major novelty of our approach is to explicitly predict user current intentions when making recommendations, by inferring their decision-making process as explained in target reviews (reviews written after interacting with the ground-truth item). Specifically, AuriSRec conducts adversarial learning between an intention generator and a discriminator. The generator predicts user intentions by taking their historical reviews and behavioral sequences as inputs, while target reviews provide guidance. Beyond typical sequential modeling methods in the field of natural language process (NLP), a decoupling-based review encoder and a hybrid attention fusion mechanism are introduced to filter noise and enhance the generation capacity. On the other hand, the discriminator determines whether the intention is generated or real based on their matching degree to the target item, thereby guiding the generator to produce gradually improved intentions. Extensive experiments on five real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach."}
{"Title": "Denoising Rationalization for Multi-hop Fact Verification via Multi-granular Explainer", "Abstract": "The success of deep learning models on multi-hop fact verification has prompted researchers to understand the behavior behind their veracity. One feasible way is erasure search: obtaining the rationale by entirely removing a subset of input without compromising verification accuracy. Despite extensive exploration, current rationalization methods struggle to discern nuanced composition within the correlated evidence, which inevitably leads to noise rationalization in multi-hop scenarios. To address this issue, this paper explores the multi-granular rationale extraction method, aiming to realize the denoising rationalization for multi-hop fact verification. Specifically, given a pretrained veracity prediction model, two independent external explainers are introduced and trained collaboratively to enhance the discriminating ability by imposing varied constraints. Meanwhile, three key properties (Fidelity, Consistency, Salience) are introduced to regularize the denoising and faithful rationalization process. Additionally, a new Noiselessness metric is proposed to measure the purity of the rationales. Experimental results on three multi-hop fact verification datasets show that the proposed approach outperforms 12 baselines."}
{"Title": "README: Bridging Medical Jargon and Lay Understanding for Patient Education through Data-Centric NLP", "Abstract": "The advancement in healthcare has shifted focus toward patient-centric approaches, particularly in self-care and patient education, facilitated by access to Electronic Health Records (EHR). However, medical jargon in EHRs poses significant challenges in patient comprehension. To address this, we introduce a new task of automatically generating lay definitions, aiming to simplify complex medical terms into patient-friendly lay language. We first created the README dataset, an extensive collection of over 50,000 unique (medical term, lay definition) pairs and 300,000 mentions, each offering context-aware lay definitions manually annotated by domain experts. We have also engineered a data-centric Human-AI pipeline that synergizes data filtering, augmentation, and selection to improve data quality. We then used README as the training data for models and leveraged a Retrieval-Augmented Generation method to reduce hallucinations and improve the quality of model outputs. Our extensive automatic and human evaluations demonstrate that open-source mobile-friendly models, when fine-tuned with high-quality data, are capable of matching or even surpassing the performance of state-of-the-art closed-source large language models like ChatGPT. This research represents a significant stride in closing the knowledge gap in patient education and advancing patient-centric healthcare solutions."}
{"Title": "Pre-trained Language Models Return Distinguishable Probability Distributions to Unfaithfully Hallucinated Texts", "Abstract": "In this work, we show the pre-trained language models return distinguishable generation probability and uncertainty distribution to unfaithfully hallucinated texts, regardless of their size and structure. By examining 24 models on 6 data sets, we find out that 88-98{\\%} of cases return statistically significantly distinguishable generation probability and uncertainty distributions. Using this general phenomenon, we showcase a hallucination-reducing training algorithm. Our algorithm outperforms other baselines by achieving higher faithfulness metrics while maintaining sound general text quality measures."}
{"Title": "Cognitive Bias in Decision-Making with LLMs", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) offer significant potential as tools to support an expanding range of decision-making tasks. Given their training on human (created) data, LLMs have been shown to inherit societal biases against protected groups, as well as be subject to bias functionally resembling cognitive bias. Human-like bias can impede fair and explainable decisions made with LLM assistance. Our work introduces BiasBuster, a framework designed to uncover, evaluate, and mitigate cognitive bias in LLMs, particularly in high-stakes decision-making tasks. Inspired by prior research in psychology and cognitive science, we develop a dataset containing 13,465 prompts to evaluate LLM decisions on different cognitive biases (e.g., prompt-induced, sequential, inherent). We test various bias mitigation strategies, while proposing a novel method utilizing LLMs to debias their own human-like cognitive bias within prompts. Our analysis provides a comprehensive picture of the presence and effects of cognitive bias across commercial and open-source models. We demonstrate that our selfhelp debiasing effectively mitigates model answers that display patterns akin to human cognitive bias without having to manually craft examples for each bias."}
{"Title": "Problem-Oriented Segmentation and Retrieval: Case Study on Tutoring Conversations", "Abstract": "Many open-ended conversations (e.g., tutoring lessons or business meetings) revolve around pre-defined reference materials, like worksheets or meeting bullets. To provide a framework for studying such conversation structure, we introduce *Problem-Oriented Segmentation {\\&} Retrieval (POSR), the task of jointly breaking down conversations into segments and linking each segment to the relevant reference item. As a case study, we apply POSR to education where effectively structuring lessons around problems is critical yet difficult. We present *LessonLink*, the first dataset of real-world tutoring lessons, featuring 3,500 segments, spanning 24,300 minutes of instruction and linked to 116 SAT Math problems. We define and evaluate several joint and independent approaches for POSR, including segmentation (e.g., TextTiling), retrieval (e.g., ColBERT), and large language models (LLMs) methods. Our results highlight that modeling POSR as one joint task is essential: POSR methods outperform independent segmentation and retrieval pipelines by up to +76{\\%} on joint metrics and surpass traditional segmentation methods by up to +78{\\%} on segmentation metrics. We demonstrate POSR{'}s practical impact on downstream education applications, deriving new insights on the language and time use in real-world lesson structures."}
{"Title": "Prompt-Based Bias Calibration for Better Zero/Few-Shot Learning of Language Models", "Abstract": "Prompt-based learning is susceptible to intrinsic bias present in pre-trained language models (LMs), leading to sub-optimal performance in prompt-based zero/few-shot settings. In this work, we propose a null-input prompting method to calibrate intrinsic bias encoded in pre-trained LMs. Different from prior efforts that address intrinsic bias primarily for social fairness and often involve excessive computational cost, our objective is to explore enhancing LMs{'} performance in downstream zero/few-shot learning while emphasizing the efficiency of intrinsic bias calibration. Specifically, we leverage a diverse set of auto-selected null-meaning inputs generated from GPT-4 to probe intrinsic bias of pre-trained LMs. Utilizing the bias-reflected probability distribution, we formulate a distribution disparity loss for bias calibration, where we exclusively update bias parameters (0.1{\\%} of total parameters) of LMs towards equal probability distribution. Experimental results show that the calibration promotes an equitable starting point for LMs while preserving language modeling abilities. Across a wide range of datasets, including sentiment analysis and topic classification, our method significantly improves zero/few-shot learning performance of LMs for both in-context learning and prompt-based fine-tuning (on average 9{\\%} and 2{\\%}, respectively)."}
{"Title": "Can't Remember Details in Long Documents? You Need Some R&R", "Abstract": "Long-context large language models (LLMs) hold promise for tasks such as question-answering (QA) over long documents, but they tend to miss important information in the middle of context documents [(Liu 2023)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.03172). Here, we introduce *R{\\&}R*{---}a combination of two novel prompt-based methods called *reprompting* and *in-context retrieval* (ICR){---}to alleviate this effect in document-based QA. In reprompting, we repeat the prompt instructions periodically throughout the context document to remind the LLM of its original task. In ICR, rather than instructing the LLM to answer the question directly, we instruct it to retrieve the top $k$ passage numbers most relevant to the given question, which are then used as an abbreviated context in a second QA prompt. We test R{\\&}R with GPT-4 Turbo and Claude-2.1 on documents up to 80k tokens in length and observe a 16-point boost in QA accuracy on average. Our further analysis suggests that R{\\&}R improves performance on long document-based QA because it reduces the distance between relevant context and the instructions. Finally, we show that compared to short-context chunkwise methods, R{\\&}R enables the use of larger chunks that cost fewer LLM calls and output tokens, while minimizing the drop in accuracy."}
{"Title": "HumVI: A Multilingual Dataset for Detecting Violent Incidents Impacting Humanitarian Aid", "Abstract": "Humanitarian organizations can enhance their effectiveness by analyzing data to discover trends, gather aggregated insights, manage their security risks, support decision-making, and inform advocacy and funding proposals. However, data about violent incidents with direct impact and relevance for humanitarian aid operations is not readily available. An automatic data collection and NLP-backed classification framework aligned with humanitarian perspectives can help bridge this gap. In this paper, we present HumVI {--} a dataset comprising news articles in three languages (English, French, Arabic) containing instances of different types of violent incidents categorized by the humanitarian sector they impact, e.g., aid security, education, food security, health, and protection. Reliable labels were obtained for the dataset by partnering with a data-backed humanitarian organization, Insecurity Insight. We provide multiple benchmarks for the dataset, employing various deep learning architectures and techniques, including data augmentation and mask loss, to address different task-related challenges, e.g., domain expansion. The dataset is publicly available at https://github.com/dataminr-ai/humvi-dataset."}
{"Title": "Improving Quotation Attribution with Fictional Character Embeddings", "Abstract": "Humans naturally attribute utterances of direct speech to their speaker in literary works.When attributing quotes, we process contextual information but also access mental representations of characters that we build and revise throughout the narrative. Recent methods to automatically attribute such utterances have explored simulating human logic with deterministic rules or learning new implicit rules with neural networks when processing contextual information.However, these systems inherently lack character representations, which often leads to errors in more challenging examples of attribution: anaphoric and implicit quotes.In this work, we propose to augment a popular quotation attribution system, BookNLP, with character embeddings that encode global stylistic information of characters derived from an off-the-shelf stylometric model, Universal Authorship Representation (UAR).We create DramaCV, a corpus of English drama plays from the 15th to 20th century that we automatically annotate for Authorship Verification of fictional characters utterances, and release two versions of UAR trained on DramaCV, that are tailored for literary characters analysis.Then, through an extensive evaluation on 28 novels, we show that combining BookNLP{'}s contextual information with our proposed global character embeddings improves the identification of speakers for anaphoric and implicit quotes, reaching state-of-the-art performance.Code and data can be found at https://github.com/deezer/character{\\_}embeddings{\\_}qa."}
{"Title": "Robust Text Classification: Analyzing Prototype-Based Networks", "Abstract": "Downstream applications often require text classification models to be accurate and robust. While the accuracy of state-of-the-art Language Models (LMs) approximates human performance, they often exhibit a drop in performance on real-world noisy data. This lack of robustness can be concerning, as even small perturbations in text, irrelevant to the target task, can cause classifiers to incorrectly change their predictions. A potential solution can be the family of Prototype-Based Networks (PBNs) that classifies examples based on their similarity to prototypical examples of a class (prototypes) and has been shown to be robust to noise for computer vision tasks. In this paper, we study whether the robustness properties of PBNs transfer to text classification tasks under both targeted and static adversarial attack settings. Our results show that PBNs, as a mere architectural variation of vanilla LMs, offer more robustness compared to vanilla LMs under both targeted and static settings. We showcase how PBNs{'} interpretability can help us understand PBNs{'} robustness properties. Finally, our ablation studies reveal the sensitivity of PBNs{'} robustness to the strictness of clustering and the number of prototypes in the training phase, as tighter clustering and a low number of prototypes result in less robust PBNs."}
{"Title": "GraphReader: Building Graph-based Agent to Enhance Long-Context Abilities of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Long-context capabilities are essential for large language models (LLMs) to tackle complex and long-input tasks. Despite numerous efforts made to optimize LLMs for long contexts, challenges persist in robustly processing long inputs. In this paper, we introduce GraphReader, a graph-based agent system designed to handle long texts by structuring them into a graph and employing an agent to explore this graph autonomously. Upon receiving a question, the agent first undertakes a step-by-step analysis and devises a rational plan. It then invokes a set of predefined functions to read node content and neighbors, facilitating a coarse-to-fine exploration of the graph. Throughout the exploration, the agent continuously records new insights and reflects on current circumstances to optimize the process until it has gathered sufficient information to generate an answer. Experimental results on the LV-Eval dataset reveal that GraphReader using a 4k context window, consistently outperforms GPT-4-128k across context lengths from 16k to 256k by a large margin. Additionally, our approach demonstrates superior performance on four challenging single-hop and multi-hop benchmarks."}
{"Title": "Compare without Despair: Reliable Preference Evaluation with Generation Separability", "Abstract": "Human evaluation of generated language through pairwise preference judgments is pervasive. However, under common scenarios, such as when generations from a model pair are very similar, or when stochastic decoding results in large variations in generations, it results in inconsistent preference ratings. We address these challenges by introducing a meta-evaluation measure, separability, which estimates how suitable a test instance is for pairwise preference evaluation. For a candidate test instance, separability samples multiple generations from a pair of models, and measures how distinguishable the two sets of generations are. Our experiments show that instances with high separability values yield more consistent preference ratings from both human- and auto-raters. Further, the distribution of separability allows insights into which test benchmarks are more valuable for comparing models. Finally, we incorporate separability into ELO ratings, accounting for how suitable each test instance might be for reliably ranking LLMs. Overall, separability has implications for consistent, efficient and robust preference evaluation of LLMs with both human- and auto-raters."}
{"Title": "LoRASC: Expressive and Generalizable Low-rank Adaptation for Large Models via Slow Cascaded Learning", "Abstract": "Efficient fine-tuning plays a fundamental role in modern large models, with low-rank adaptation emerging as a particularly promising approach. However, the existing variants of LoRA are hampered by limited expressiveness, a tendency to overfit, and sensitivity to hyperparameter settings. This paper presents LoRA Slow Cascade Learning (LoRASC), an innovative technique designed to enhance LoRA{'}s expressiveness and generalization capabilities while preserving its training efficiency. Our approach augments expressiveness through a cascaded learning strategy that enables a mixture-of-low-rank adaptation, thereby increasing the model{'}s ability to capture complex patterns. Additionally, we introduce a slow-fast update mechanism and cascading noisy tuning to bolster generalization. The extensive experiments on various language and vision datasets, as well as robustness benchmarks, demonstrate that the proposed method not only significantly outperforms existing baselines, but also mitigates overfitting, enhances model stability, and improves OOD robustness."}
{"Title": "SQFT: Low-cost Model Adaptation in Low-precision Sparse Foundation Models", "Abstract": "Large pre-trained models (LPMs), such as large language models, have become ubiquitous and are employed in many applications. These models are often adapted to a desired domain or downstream task through a fine-tuning stage. This paper proposes SQFT, an end-to-end solution for low-precision sparse parameter-efficient fine-tuning of LPMs, allowing for effective model manipulation in resource-constrained environments. Additionally, an innovative strategy enables the merging of sparse weights with low-rank adapters without losing sparsity and accuracy, overcoming the limitations of previous approaches. SQFT also addresses the challenge of having quantized weights and adapters with different numerical precisions, enabling merging in the desired numerical format without sacrificing accuracy. Multiple adaptation scenarios, models, and comprehensive sparsity levels demonstrate the effectiveness of SQFT."}
{"Title": "Securing Multi-turn Conversational Language Models From Distributed Backdoor Attacks", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have acquired the ability to handle longer context lengths and understand nuances in text, expanding their dialogue capabilities beyond a single utterance. A popular user-facing application of LLMs is the multi-turn chat setting. Though longer chat memory and better understanding may seemingly benefit users, our paper exposes a vulnerability that leverages the multi-turn feature and strong learning ability of LLMs to harm the end-user: the backdoor. We demonstrate that LLMs can capture the combinational backdoor representation. Only upon presentation of triggers together does the backdoor activate. We also verify empirically that this representation is invariant to the position of the trigger utterance. Subsequently, inserting a single extra token into any two utterances of 5{\\%} of the data can cause over 99{\\%} Attack Success Rate (ASR). Our results with 3 triggers demonstrate that this framework is generalizable, compatible with any trigger in an adversary{'}s toolbox in a plug-and-play manner. Defending the backdoor can be challenging in the conversational setting because of the large input and output space. Our analysis indicates that the distributed backdoor exacerbates the current challenges by polynomially increasing the dimension of the attacked input space. Canonical textual defenses like ONION and BKI leverage auxiliary model forward passes over individual tokens, scaling exponentially with the input sequence length and struggling to maintain computational feasibility. To this end, we propose a decoding time defense {--} decayed contrastive decoding {--} that scales linearly with the assistant response sequence length and reduces the backdoor to as low as 0.35{\\%}."}
{"Title": "InternalInspector I^2: Robust Confidence Estimation in LLMs through Internal States", "Abstract": "Despite their vast capabilities, Large Language Models (LLMs) often struggle with generating reliable outputs, frequently producing high-confidence inaccuracies known as hallucinations. Addressing this challenge, our research introduces InternalInspector, a novel framework designed to enhance confidence estimation in LLMs by leveraging contrastive learning on internal states including attention states, feed-forward states, and activation states of all layers. Unlike existing methods that primarily focus on the final activation state, InternalInspector conducts a comprehensive analysis across all internal states of every layer to accurately identify both correct and incorrect prediction processes. By benchmarking InternalInspector against existing confidence estimation methods across various natural language understanding and generation tasks, including factual question answering, commonsense reasoning, and reading comprehension, InternalInspector achieves significantly higher accuracy in aligning the estimated confidence scores with the correctness of the LLM{'}s predictions and lower calibration error. Furthermore, InternalInspector excels at HaluEval, a hallucination detection benchmark, outperforming other internal-based confidence estimation methods in this task."}
{"Title": "All You Need is Attention: Lightweight Attention-based Data Augmentation for Text Classification", "Abstract": "This paper introduces LADAM, a novel method for enhancing the performance of text classification tasks. LADAM employs attention mechanisms to exchange semantically similar words between sentences. This approach generates a greater diversity of synthetic sentences compared to simpler operations like random insertions, while maintaining the context of the original sentences. Additionally, LADAM is an easy-to-use, lightweight technique that does not require external datasets or large language models. Our experimental results across five datasets demonstrate that LADAM consistently outperforms baseline methods across diverse text classification conditions."}
{"Title": "Adversarial Attacks on Parts of Speech: An Empirical Study in Text-to-Image Generation", "Abstract": "Recent studies show that text-to-image (T2I) models are vulnerable to adversarial attacks, especially with noun perturbations in text prompts. In this study, we investigate the impact of adversarial attacks on different POS tags within text prompts on the images generated by T2I models. We create a high-quality dataset for realistic POS tag token swapping and perform gradient-based attacks to find adversarial suffixes that mislead T2I models into generating images with altered tokens. Our empirical results show that the attack success rate (ASR) varies significantly among different POS tag categories, with nouns, proper nouns, and adjectives being the easiest to attack. We explore the mechanism behind the steering effect of adversarial suffixes, finding that the number of critical tokens and information fusion vary among POS tags, while features like suffix transferability are consistent across categories."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Alignment using Curriculum Learning & Ranked Preferences", "Abstract": "Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) is an effective technique that leverages pairwise preference data (one chosen and rejected response per prompt) to align LLMs to human preferences. In practice, multiple responses could exist for a given prompt with varying quality relative to each other. We propose to utilize these responses to create multiple preference pairs for a given prompt. Our work focuses on aligning LLMs by systematically curating multiple preference pairs and presenting them in a meaningful manner facilitating curriculum learning to enhance the prominent DPO technique. We order multiple preference pairs from easy to hard, according to various criteria thus emulating curriculum learning. Our method, which is referred to as Curri-DPO consistently shows increased performance gains on MTbench, Vicuna bench, WizardLM, highlighting its effectiveness over standard DPO setting that utilizes single preference pair. More specifically, Curri-DPO achieves a score of 7.43 on MTbench with Zephyr-7B, outperforming majority of existing LLMs with similar parameter size. Curri-DPO also achieves the highest win rates on Vicuna, WizardLM, and UltraFeedback test sets (90.7{\\%}, 87.1{\\%}, and 87.9{\\%} respectively) in our experiments, with notable gains of up to 7.5{\\%} when compared to standard DPO. We release the preference pairs used in alignment at: https://huggingface.co/datasets/ServiceNow-AI/Curriculum{\\_}DPO{\\_}preferences."}
{"Title": "Multi-Target Cross-Lingual Summarization: a novel task and a language-neutral approach", "Abstract": "Cross-lingual summarization aims to bridge language barriers by summarizing documents in different languages. However, ensuring semantic coherence across languages is an overlooked challenge and can be critical in several contexts. To fill this gap, we introduce multi-target cross-lingual summarization as the task of summarizing a document into multiple target languages while ensuring that the produced summaries are semantically similar. We propose a principled re-ranking approach to this problem and a multi-criteria evaluation protocol to assess semantic coherence across target languages, marking a first step that will hopefully stimulate further research on this problem."}
{"Title": "Tab2Text - A framework for deep learning with tabular data", "Abstract": "Tabular data, from public opinion surveys to records of interactions with social services, is foundational to the social sciences. One application of such data is to fit supervised learning models in order to predict consequential outcomes, for example: whether a family is likely to be evicted, whether a student will graduate from high school or is at risk of dropping out, and whether a voter will turn out in an upcoming election. While supervised learning has seen drastic improvements in performance with advancements in deep learning technology, these gains are largely lost on tabular data which poses unique difficulties for deep learning frameworks. We propose a technique for transforming tabular data to text data and demonstrate the extent to which this technique can improve the performance of deep learning models for tabular data. Overall, we find modest gains (1.5{\\%} on average). Interestingly, we find that these gains do not depend on using large language models to generate text."}
{"Title": "More Bang for your Context: Virtual Documents for Question Answering over Long Documents", "Abstract": "We deal with the problem of Question Answering (QA) over a long document, which poses a challenge for modern Large Language Models (LLMs). Although LLMs can handle increasingly longer context windows, they struggle to effectively utilize the long content. To address this issue, we introduce the concept of a virtual document (VDoc). A VDoc is created by selecting chunks from the original document that are most likely to contain the information needed to answer the user{'}s question, while ensuring they fit within the LLM{'}s context window. We hypothesize that providing a short and focused VDoc to the LLM is more effective than filling the entire context window with less relevant information. Our experiments confirm this hypothesis and demonstrate that using VDocs improves results on the QA task."}
{"Title": "Out-of-Distribution Detection through Soft Clustering with Non-Negative Kernel Regression", "Abstract": "As language models become more general purpose, increased attention needs to be paid to detecting out-of-distribution (OOD) instances, i.e., those not belonging to any of the distributions seen during training. Existing methods for detecting OOD data are computationally complex and storage-intensive. We propose a novel soft clustering approach for OOD detection based on non-negative kernel regression. Our approach greatly reduces computational and space complexities (up to $11\\times$ improvement in inference time and 87{\\%} reduction in storage requirements). It outperforms existing approaches by up to 4 AUROC points on four benchmarks. We also introduce an entropy-constrained version of our algorithm, leading to further reductions in storage requirements (up to 97{\\%} lower than comparable approaches) while retaining competitive performance. Our soft clustering approach for OOD detection highlights its potential for detecting tail-end phenomena in extreme-scale data settings. Our source code is available on Github."}
{"Title": "Synthetic Multimodal Question Generation", "Abstract": "Multimodal Retrieval Augmented Generation (MMRAG) is a powerful approach to question-answering over multimodal documents. A key challenge with evaluating MMRAG is the paucity of high-quality datasets matching the question styles and modalities of interest. In light of this, we propose SMMQG, a synthetic data generation framework. SMMQG leverages interplay between a retriever, large language model (LLM) and large multimodal model (LMM) to generate question and answer pairs directly from multimodal documents, with the questions conforming to specified styles and modalities. We use SMMQG to generate an MMRAG dataset of 1024 questions over Wikipedia documents and evaluate state-of-the-art models using it, revealing insights into model performance that are attainable only through style- and modality-specific evaluation data. Next, we measure the quality of data produced by SMMQG via a human study. We find that the quality of SMMQG-generated synthetic data is on par with the quality of the crowdsourced benchmark MMQA and that downstream evaluation results using both datasets strongly concur."}
{"Title": "Lost in Translation: Chemical Language Models and the Misunderstanding of Molecule Structures", "Abstract": "The recent integration of chemistry with natural language processing (NLP) has advanced drug discovery. Molecule representation in language models (LMs) is crucial in enhancing chemical understanding. We propose Augmented Molecular Retrieval (AMORE), a flexible zero-shot framework for assessment of Chemistry LMs of different natures: trained solely on molecules for chemical tasks and on a combined corpus of natural language texts and string-based structures. The framework relies on molecule augmentations that preserve an underlying chemical, such as kekulization and cycle replacements. We evaluate encoder-only and generative LMs by calculating a metric based on the similarity score between distributed representations of molecules and their augmentations. Our experiments on ChEBI-20 and QM9 benchmarks show that these models exhibit significantly lower scores than graph-based molecular models trained without language modeling objectives. Additionally, our results on the molecule captioning task for cross-domain models, MolT5 and Text+Chem T5, demonstrate that the lower the representation-based evaluation metrics, the lower the classical text generation metrics like ROUGE and METEOR."}
{"Title": "HyQE: Ranking Contexts with Hypothetical Query Embeddings", "Abstract": "In retrieval-augmented systems, context ranking techniques are commonly employed to reorder the retrieved contexts based on their relevance to a user query. A standard approach is to measure this relevance through the similarity between contexts and queries in the embedding space. However, such similarity often fails to capture the relevance. Alternatively, large language models (LLMs) have been used for ranking contexts. However, they can encounter scalability issues when the number of candidate contexts grows and the context window sizes of the LLMs remain constrained. Additionally, these approaches require fine-tuning LLMs with domain-specific data. In this work, we introduce a scalable ranking framework that combines embedding similarity and LLM capabilities without requiring LLM fine-tuning. Our framework uses a pre-trained LLM to hypothesize the user query based on the retrieved contexts and ranks the context based on the similarity between the hypothesized queries and the user query. Our framework is efficient at inference time and is compatible with many other retrieval and ranking techniques. Experimental results show that our method improves the ranking performance across multiple benchmarks."}
{"Title": "Model Merging and Safety Alignment: One Bad Model Spoils the Bunch", "Abstract": "Merging Large Language Models (LLMs) is a cost-effective technique for combining multiple expert LLMs into a single versatile model, retaining the expertise of the original ones. However, current approaches often overlook the importance of safety alignment during merging, leading to highly misaligned models. This work investigates the effects of model merging on alignment. We evaluate several popular model merging techniques, demonstrating that existing methods do not only transfer domain expertise but also propagate misalignment. We propose a simple two-step approach to address this problem: (i) generating synthetic safety and domain-specific data, and (ii) incorporating these generated data into the optimization process of existing data-aware model merging techniques. This allows us to treat alignment as a skill that can be maximized in the resulting merged LLM. Our experiments illustrate the effectiveness of integrating alignment-related data during merging, resulting in models that excel in both domain expertise and alignment."}
{"Title": "Large Language Models Are Challenged by Habitat-Centered Reasoning", "Abstract": "In this paper we perform a novel in-depth evaluation of text-only and multimodal LLMs{'} abilities to reason about object *habitats* or conditions on how objects are situated in their environments that affect the types of behaviors (or *affordances*) that can be enacted upon them. We present a novel curated multimodal dataset of questions about object habitats and affordances, which are formally grounded in the underlying lexical semantics literature, with multiple images from various sources that depict the scenario described in the question. We evaluate 16 text-only and multimodal LLMs on this challenging data. Our findings indicate that while certain LLMs can perform reasonably well on reasoning about affordances, there appears to be a consistent low upper bound on habitat-centered reasoning performance. We discuss how the formal semantics of habitats in fact predicts this behavior and propose this as a challenge to the community."}
{"Title": "How to Train Your Fact Verifier: Knowledge Transfer with Multimodal Open Models", "Abstract": "Given the growing influx of misinformation across news and social media, there is a critical need for systems that can provide effective real-time verification of news claims. Large language or multimodal model based verification has been proposed to scale up online policing mechanisms for mitigating spread of false and harmful content. While these can potentially reduce burden on human fact-checkers, such efforts may be hampered by foundation model training data becoming outdated. In this work, we test the limits of improving foundation model performance without continual updating through an initial study of knowledge transfer using either existing intra- and inter-domain benchmarks or explanations generated from large language models (LLMs).We evaluate on 12 public benchmarks for fact-checking and misinformation detection as well as two other tasks relevant to content moderation - toxicity and stance detection. Our results on two recent multi-modal fact-checking benchmarks, Mocheg and Fakeddit, indicate that knowledge transfer strategies can improve Fakeddit performance over the state-of-the-art by up to 1.7{\\%} and Mocheg performance by up to 2.9{\\%}. The code, model checkpoints, and dataset are available: https://github.com/given131/ fact-verifier-knowledge-transfer."}
{"Title": "Benchmarking Machine Translation with Cultural Awareness", "Abstract": "Translating culture-related content is vital for effective cross-cultural communication. However, many culture-specific items (CSIs) often lack literal translation across languages, making it challenging to collect high-quality, diverse parallel corpora with CSI annotations. This difficulty hinders the analysis of cultural awareness of machine translation (MT) systems, including traditional neural MT and the emerging MT paradigm using large language models (LLM). To address this gap, we introduce a novel parallel corpus, enriched with CSI annotations in 6 language pairs for investigating Cultural-Aware Machine Translation{---}CAMT. Furthermore, we design two evaluation metrics to assess CSI translations, focusing on their pragmatic translation quality. Our findings show the superior ability of LLMs over neural MTs in leveraging external cultural knowledge for translating CSIs, especially those lacking translations in the target culture."}
{"Title": "Turning English-centric LLMs Into Polyglots: How Much Multilinguality Is Needed?", "Abstract": "The vast majority of today{'}s large language models (LLMs) are English-centric, having been pretrained predominantly on English text. Yet, in order to meet user expectations, models need to be able to respond appropriately in multiple languages once deployed in downstream applications. This requires strong cross-lingual transfer abilities.In this work, we investigate the minimal amount of multilinguality required during finetuning to elicit cross-lingual generalisation in English-centric LLMs. In experiments across four LLMs, we find that multilingual instruction tuning with as few as two to three languages is both necessary and sufficient to elicit effective cross-lingual generalisation, with the limiting factor being the degree to which a target language is seen during pretraining. Evaluations on five different tasks further reveal that multilingual instruction tuning is most beneficial for generative tasks that assume input/output language agreement, such as in chat settings, while being of less importance for highly structured classification-style tasks."}
{"Title": "Temperature-Centric Investigation of Speculative Decoding with Knowledge Distillation", "Abstract": "Speculative decoding stands as a pivotal technique to expedite inference in autoregressive (large) language models. This method employs a smaller *draft* model to speculate a block of tokens, which the *target* model then evaluates for acceptance. Despite a wealth of studies aimed at increasing the efficiency of speculative decoding, the influence of generation configurations on the decoding process remains poorly understood, especially concerning decoding temperatures. This paper delves into the effects of decoding temperatures on speculative decoding{'}s efficacy. Beginning with knowledge distillation (KD), we first highlight the challenge of decoding at higher temperatures, and demonstrate KD in a consistent temperature setting could be a remedy. We also investigate the effects of out-of-domain testing sets with out-of-range temperatures. Building upon these findings, we take an initial step to further the speedup for speculative decoding, particularly in a high-temperature generation setting. Our work offers new insights into how generation configurations drastically affect the performance of speculative decoding, and underscores the need for developing methods that focus on diverse decoding configurations."}
{"Title": "Generate then Refine: Data Augmentation for Zero-shot Intent Detection", "Abstract": "In this short paper we propose a data augmentation method for intent detection in zero-resource domains.Existing data augmentation methods rely on few labelled examples for each intent category, which can be expensive in settings with many possible intents.We use a two-stage approach: First, we generate utterances for intent labels using an open-source large language model in a zero-shot setting. Second, we develop a smaller sequence-to-sequence model (the Refiner), to improve the generated utterances. The Refiner is fine-tuned on seen domains and then applied to unseen domains. We evaluate our method by training an intent classifier on the generated data, and evaluating it on real (human) data.We find that the Refiner significantly improves the data utility and diversity over the zero-shot LLM baseline for unseen domains and over common baseline approaches.Our results indicate that a two-step approach of a generative LLM in zero-shot setting and a smaller sequence-to-sequence model can provide high-quality data for intent detection."}
{"Title": "Unleashing the Power of Large Language Models in Zero-shot Relation Extraction via Self-Prompting", "Abstract": "Recent research in zero-shot Relation Extraction (RE) has focused on using Large Language Models (LLMs) due to their impressive zero-shot capabilities. However, current methods often perform suboptimally, mainly due to a lack of detailed, context-specific prompts needed for understanding various sentences and relations. To address this, we introduce the Self-Prompting framework, a novel method designed to fully harness the embedded RE knowledge within LLMs. Specifically, our framework employs a three-stage diversity approach to prompt LLMs, generating multiple synthetic samples that encapsulate specific relations from scratch. These generated samples act as in-context learning samples, offering explicit and context-specific guidance to efficiently prompt LLMs for RE. Experimental evaluations on benchmark datasets show our approach outperforms existing LLM-based zero-shot RE methods. Additionally, our experiments confirm the effectiveness of our generation pipeline in producing high-quality synthetic data that enhances performance."}
{"Title": "\u201cWhat is the value of templates?\u201d Rethinking Document Information Extraction Datasets for LLMs", "Abstract": "The rise of large language models (LLMs) for visually rich document understanding (VRDU) has kindled a need for prompt-response, document-based datasets. As annotating new datasets from scratch is labor-intensive, the existing literature has generated prompt-response datasets from available resources using simple templates. For the case of key information extraction (KIE), one of the most common VRDU tasks, past work has typically employed the template {``}What is the value for the key?{''}. However, given the variety of questions encountered in the wild, simple and uniform templates are insufficient for creating robust models in research and industrial contexts. In this work, we present K2Q, a diverse collection of five datasets converted from KIE to a prompt-response format using a plethora of bespoke templates. The questions in K2Q can span multiple entities and be extractive or boolean. We empirically compare the performance of seven baseline generative models on K2Q with zero-shot prompting. We further compare three of these models when training on K2Q versus training on simpler templates to motivate the need of our work. We find that creating diverse and intricate KIE questions enhances the performance and robustness of VRDU models. We hope this work encourages future studies on data quality for generative model training."}
{"Title": "What Matters in Memorizing and Recalling Facts? Multifaceted Benchmarks for Knowledge Probing in Language Models", "Abstract": "Language models often struggle with handling factual knowledge, exhibiting factual hallucination issue. This makes it vital to evaluate the models{'} ability to recall its parametric knowledge about facts. In this study, we introduce a knowledge probing benchmark, BELIEF(ICL), to evaluate the knowledge recall ability of both encoder- and decoder-based pre-trained language models (PLMs) from diverse perspectives. BELIEFs utilize a multi-prompt dataset to evaluate PLM{'}s accuracy, consistency, and reliability in factual knowledge recall. To enable a more reliable evaluation with BELIEFs, we semi-automatically create MyriadLAMA, which has massively diverse prompts. We validate the effectiveness of BELIEFs in comprehensively evaluating PLM{'}s knowledge recall ability on diverse PLMs, including recent large language models (LLMs). We then investigate key factors in memorizing and recalling facts in PLMs, such as model size, pretraining strategy and corpora, instruction-tuning process and in-context learning settings. Finally, we reveal the limitation of the prompt-based knowledge probing. The MyriadLAMA is publicized."}
{"Title": "On Leakage of Code Generation Evaluation Datasets", "Abstract": "In this paper, we consider contamination by code generation test sets, in particular in their use in modern large language models.We discuss three possible sources of such contamination and show findings supporting each of them: (i) direct data leakage, (ii) indirect data leakage through the use of synthetic data and (iii) overfitting to evaluation sets during model selection.To address this, we release Less Basic Python Problems (LBPP): an uncontaminated new benchmark of 161 prompts with their associated Python solutions. LBPP is released at https://huggingface.co/datasets/CohereForAI/lbpp"}
{"Title": "The Language of Trauma: Modeling Traumatic Event Descriptions Across Domains with Explainable AI", "Abstract": "Psychological trauma can manifest following various distressing events and is captured in diverse online contexts. However, studies traditionally focus on a single aspect of trauma, often neglecting the transferability of findings across different scenarios. We address this gap by training various language models with progressing complexity on trauma-related datasets, including genocide-related court data, a Reddit dataset on post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), counseling conversations, and Incel forum posts. Our results show that the fine-tuned RoBERTa model excels in predicting traumatic events across domains, slightly outperforming large language models like GPT-4. Additionally, SLALOM-feature scores and conceptual explanations effectively differentiate and cluster trauma-related language, highlighting different trauma aspects and identifying sexual abuse and experiences related to death as a common traumatic event across all datasets. This transferability is crucial as it allows for the development of tools to enhance trauma detection and intervention in diverse populations and settings."}
{"Title": "Auto-Evolve: Enhancing Large Language Model's Performance via Self-Reasoning Framework", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in prompt engineering strategies, such as Chain-of-Thought (CoT) and Self-Discover, have demonstrated significant potential in improving the reasoning abilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). However, these state-of-the-art (SOTA) prompting strategies rely on a fixed set of static seed reasoning modules like {``}think step by step{''} or {``}break down this problem{''} intended to simulate human approach to problem-solving. This constraint limits the flexibility of models in tackling diverse problems effectively. In this paper, we introduce Auto-Evolve, a novel framework that enables LLMs to self-create dynamic reasoning modules and downstream action plan, resulting in significant improvements over current SOTA methods. We evaluate Auto-Evolve on the challenging BigBench-Hard (BBH) dataset with Claude 2.0, Claude 3 Sonnet, Mistral Large, and GPT-4, where it consistently outperforms the SOTA prompt strategies. Auto-Evolve outperforms CoT by up to 10.4{\\%} and on an average by 7{\\%} across these four models. Our framework introduces two innovations: a) Auto-Evolve dynamically generates reasoning modules for each task while aligning with human reasoning paradigm, thus eliminating the need for predefined templates. b) An iterative refinement component, that incrementally refines instruction guidance for LLMs and helps boost performance by average 2.8{\\%} compared to doing it in a single step."}
{"Title": "V-DPO: Mitigating Hallucination in Large Vision Language Models via Vision-Guided Direct Preference Optimization", "Abstract": "Large vision-language models (LVLMs) suffer from hallucination, resulting in misalignment between the output textual response and the input visual content. Recent research indicates that the over-reliance on the Large Language Model (LLM) backbone, as one cause of the LVLM hallucination, inherently introduces bias from language priors, leading to insufficient context attention to the visual inputs.We tackle this issue of hallucination by mitigating such over-reliance through preference learning. We propose Vision-guided Direct Preference Optimization (V-DPO) to enhance visual context learning at training time. To interpret the effectiveness and generalizability of V-DPO on different types of training data, we construct a synthetic dataset containing both response- and image-contrast preference pairs, compared against existing human-annotated hallucination samples. Our approach achieves significant improvements compared with baseline methods across various hallucination benchmarks. Our analysis indicates that V-DPO excels in learning from image-contrast preference data, demonstrating its superior ability to elicit and understand nuances of visual context. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/YuxiXie/V-DPOhttps://github.com/YuxiXie/V-DPO."}
{"Title": "Exploring the Potential of Multimodal LLM with Knowledge-Intensive Multimodal ASR", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in multimodal large language models (MLLMs) have made significant progress in integrating information across various modalities, yet real-world applications in educational and scientific domains remain challenging. This paper introduces the Multimodal Scientific ASR (MS-ASR) task, which focuses on transcribing scientific conference videos by leveraging visual information from slides to enhance the accuracy of technical terminologies. Realized that traditional metrics like WER fall short in assessing performance accurately, prompting the proposal of severity-aware WER (SWER) that considers the content type and severity of ASR errors. We propose the Scientific Vision Augmented ASR (SciVASR) framework as a baseline method, enabling MLLMs to improve transcript quality through post-editing. Evaluations of state-of-the-art MLLMs, including GPT-4o, show a 45{\\%} improvement over speech-only baselines, highlighting the importance of multimodal information integration."}
{"Title": "Better Alignment with Instruction Back-and-Forth Translation", "Abstract": "We propose a new method, instruction back-and-forth translation, to improve the quality of instruction-tuning data used for aligning large language models (LLMs). Given preprocessed texts from an initial web corpus (e.g. Dolma (Soldaini et al., 2024)), we generate synthetic instructions using the backtranslation approach proposed by Li et al., (2023), filter the generated data and rewrite the responses to improve their quality further based on the initial texts. Given similar quantities of instructions, fine-tuning Llama-2 on our (synthetic instruction, rewritten response) pairs yields better AlpacaEval win rates than using other common instruction datasets such as Humpback, ShareGPT, Open Orca, Alpaca-GPT4 and Self-instruct, at both 7B and 70B parameter scales. We also demonstrate that rewriting the responses with an LLM is different from direct distillation: the former process yields better win rate at 70B scale, and the two text distributions exhibit significant distinction in the embedding space. Besides, we provide analyses showing that our backtranslated instructions are of higher quality than other sources of synthetic instructions, while our responses are more diverse and complex than what can be obtained from distillation. Overall we find that instruction back-and-forth translation combines the best of both worlds{---}making use of the information diversity and quantity found on the web, while ensuring the quality of the responses which is necessary for effective alignment."}
{"Title": "AliGATr: Graph-based layout generation for form understanding", "Abstract": "Forms constitute a large portion of layout-rich documents that convey information through key-value pairs. Form understanding involves two main tasks, namely, the identification of keys and values (a.k.a Key Information Extraction or KIE) and the association of keys to corresponding values (a.k.a. Relation Extraction or RE). State of the art models for form understanding often rely on training paradigms that yield poorly calibrated output probabilities and low performance on RE. In this paper, we present AliGATr, a graph-based model that uses a generative objective to represent complex grid-like layouts that are often found in forms. Using a grid-based graph topology, our model learns to generate the layout of each page token by token in a data efficient manner. Despite using 30{\\%} fewer parameters than the smallest SotA, AliGATr performs on par with or better than SotA models on the KIE and RE tasks against four datasets. We also show that AliGATr{'}s output probabilities are better calibrated and do not exhibit the over-confident distributions of other SotA models."}
{"Title": "Attribute Controlled Fine-tuning for Large Language Models: A Case Study on Detoxification", "Abstract": "We propose a constraint learning schema forfine-tuning Large Language Models (LLMs)with attribute control. Given a training corpusand control criteria formulated as a sequence-level constraint on model outputs, our methodfine-tunes the LLM on the training corpus whileenhancing constraint satisfaction with minimalimpact on its utility and generation quality.Specifically, our approach regularizes the LLMtraining by penalizing the KL divergence be-tween the desired output distribution, which sat-isfies the constraints, and the LLM{'}s posterior.This regularization term can be approximatedby an auxiliary model trained to decomposethe sequence-level constraints into token-levelguidance, allowing the term to be measuredby a closed-form formulation. To further im-prove efficiency, we design a parallel schemefor concurrently updating both the LLM andthe auxiliary model. We evaluate the empiricalperformance of our approach by controlling thetoxicity when training an LLM. We show thatour approach leads to an LLM that producesfewer inappropriate responses while achievingcompetitive performance on benchmarks and atoxicity detection task"}
{"Title": "SciDoc2Diagrammer-MAF: Towards Generation of Scientific Diagrams from Documents guided by Multi-Aspect Feedback Refinement", "Abstract": "Automating the creation of scientific diagrams from academic papers can significantly streamline the development of tutorials, presentations, and posters, thereby saving time and accelerating the process. Current text-to-image models (Rombach et al., 2022a; Belouadi et al., 2023) struggle with generating accurate and visually appealing diagrams from long-context inputs. We propose SciDoc2Diagram, a task that extracts relevant information from scientific papers and generates diagrams, along with a benchmarking dataset, SciDoc2DiagramBench. We develop a multi-step pipeline SciDoc2Diagrammer that generates diagrams based on user intentions using intermediate code generation. We observed that initial diagram drafts were often incomplete or unfaithful to the source, leading us to develop SciDoc2Diagrammer-Multi-Aspect-Feedback (MAF), a refinement strategy that significantly enhances factual correctness and visual appeal and outperforms existing models on both automatic and human judgement."}
{"Title": "TinyStyler: Efficient Few-Shot Text Style Transfer with Authorship Embeddings", "Abstract": "The goal of text style transfer is to transform the style of texts while preserving their original meaning, often with only a few examples of the target style. Existing style transfer methods generally rely on the few-shot capabilities of large language models or on complex controllable text generation approaches that are inefficient and underperform on fluency metrics. We introduce TinyStyler, a lightweight but effective approach, which leverages a small language model (800M params) and pre-trained authorship embeddings to perform efficient, few-shot text style transfer. We evaluate on the challenging task of authorship style transfer and find TinyStyler outperforms strong approaches such as GPT-4. We also evaluate TinyStyler{'}s ability to perform text attribute style transfer (formal $\\leftrightarrow$ informal) with automatic and human evaluations and find that the approach outperforms recent controllable text generation methods."}
{"Title": "Can LLMs Understand the Implication of Emphasized Sentences in Dialogue?", "Abstract": "Emphasis is a crucial component in human communication, which indicates speaker{'}s intention and implication beyond pure text in dialogue. While Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized natural language processing, their ability to understand emphasis in dialogue remains uncertain. This paper introduces Emphasized-Talk, a benchmark dataset with annotated dialogue samples capturing the implications of emphasis. We evaluate various LLMs, both open-source and commercial, to assess their performance in understanding and generating emphasis. Additionally, we propose an automatic evaluation pipeline using GPT-4, which achieve high correlation with human scoring. Our findings reveal that although commercial LLMs generally perform better, there is still significant room for improvement in comprehending emphasized sentences."}
{"Title": "Why do LLaVA Vision-Language Models Reply to Images in English?", "Abstract": "We uncover a surprising multilingual bias occurring in a popular class of multimodal vision-language models (VLMs). Including an image in the query to a LLaVA-style VLM significantly increases the likelihood of the model returning an English response, regardless of the language of the query. This paper investigates the causes of this loss with a two-pronged approach that combines extensive ablation of the design space with a mechanistic analysis of the models{'} internal representations of image and text inputs. Both approaches indicate that the issue stems in the language modeling component of the LLaVA model. Statistically, we find that switching the language backbone for a bilingual language model has the strongest effect on reducing this error. Mechanistically, we provide compelling evidence that visual inputs are not mapped to a similar space as text ones, and that intervening on intermediary attention layers can reduce this bias. Our findings provide important insights to researchers and engineers seeking to understand the crossover between multimodal and multilingual spaces, and contribute to the goal of developing capable and inclusive VLMs for non-English contexts."}
{"Title": "Preference Tuning For Toxicity Mitigation Generalizes Across Languages", "Abstract": "Detoxifying multilingual Large Language Models (LLMs) has become crucial due to their increasing global use. In this work, we explore zero-shot cross-lingual generalization of preference tuning in detoxifying LLMs. Unlike previous studies that show limited cross-lingual generalization for other safety tasks, we demonstrate that Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) training with only English data can significantly reduce toxicity in multilingual open-ended generations. For example, the probability of mGPT-1.3B generating toxic continuations drops from 46.8{\\%} to 3.9{\\%} across 17 different languages after training. Our results also extend to other multilingual LLMs, such as BLOOM, Llama3, and Aya-23. Using mechanistic interpretability tools like causal intervention and activation analysis, we identified the dual multilinguality property of MLP layers in LLMs, which explains the cross-lingual generalization of DPO. Finally, we show that bilingual sentence retrieval can predict the cross-lingual transferability of DPO preference tuning."}
{"Title": "Calibrating Long-form Generations From Large Language Models", "Abstract": "To enhance Large Language Models{'} (LLMs) reliability, calibration is essential{---}the model{'}s confidence scores should align with the likelihood of its responses being correct. However, traditional calibration methods typically rely on a binary true/false assessment of response correctness, unsuitable for long-form generations where an answer can be partially correct. Addressing this gap, we introduce a unified calibration framework, in which both the correctness of the LLMs{'} responses and their associated confidence levels are treated as distributions across a range of scores. We develop three metrics for assessing LLM calibration and propose confidence elicitation methods based on self-consistency and self-evaluation. Our experiments demonstrate that larger models don{'}t necessarily guarantee better calibration, that various calibration metrics complement each other, and that self-consistency methods excel in factoid datasets. We also find that calibration can be enhanced through techniques such as fine-tuning, scaling the temperature. Finally, we illustrate one application of long-form calibration through selective answering in long-form responses, optimizing correctness within a constrained API budget."}
{"Title": "Train Once, Deploy Anywhere: Matryoshka Representation Learning for Multimodal Recommendation", "Abstract": "Despite recent advancements in language and vision modeling, integrating rich multimodal knowledge into recommender systems continues to pose significant challenges. This is primarily due to the need for efficient recommendation, which requires adaptive and interactive responses. In this study, we focus on sequential recommendation and introduce a lightweight framework called full-scale Matryoshka representation learning for multimodal recommendation (fMRLRec). Our fMRLRec captures item features at different granularities, learning informative representations for efficient recommendation across multiple dimensions. To integrate item features from diverse modalities, fMRLRec employs a simple mapping to project multimodal item features into an aligned feature space. Additionally, we design an efficient linear transformation that embeds smaller features into larger ones, substantially reducing memory requirements for large-scale training on recommendation data. Combined with improved state space modeling techniques, fMRLRec scales to different dimensions and only requires one-time training to produce multiple models tailored to various granularities. We demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of fMRLRec on multiple benchmark datasets, which consistently achieves superior performance over state-of-the-art baseline methods. We make our code and data publicly available at https://github.com/yueqirex/fMRLRec."}
{"Title": "Exploring Quantization for Efficient Pre-Training of Transformer Language Models", "Abstract": "The increasing scale of Transformer models has led to an increase in their pre-training computational requirements. While quantization has proven to be effective after pre-training and during fine-tuning, applying quantization in Transformers during pre-training has remained largely unexplored at scale for language modeling. This study aims to explore the impact of quantization for efficient pre-training of Transformers, with a focus on linear layer components. By systematically applying straightforward linear quantization to weights, activations, gradients, and optimizer states, we assess its effects on model efficiency, stability, and performance during training. By offering a comprehensive recipe of effective quantization strategies to be applied during the pre-training of Transformers, we promote high training efficiency from scratch while retaining language modeling ability."}
{"Title": "Multilingual Synopses of Movie Narratives: A Dataset for Vision-Language Story Understanding", "Abstract": "Story video-text alignment, a core task in computational story understanding, aims to align video clips with corresponding sentences in their descriptions. However, progress on the task has been held back by the scarcity of manually annotated video-text correspondence and the heavy concentration on English narrations of Hollywood movies. To address these issues, in this paper, we construct a large-scale multilingual video story dataset named Multilingual Synopses of Movie Narratives (M-SyMoN), containing 13,166 movie summary videos from 7 languages, as well as manual annotation of fine-grained video-text correspondences for 101.5 hours of video. Training on the human annotated data from SyMoN outperforms the SOTA methods by 15.7 and 16.2 percentage points on Clip Accuracy and Sentence IoU scores, respectively, demonstrating the effectiveness of the annotations. As benchmarks for future research, we create 6 baseline approaches with different multilingual training strategies, compare their performance in both intra-lingual and cross-lingual setups, exemplifying the challenges of multilingual video-text alignment. The dataset is released at:https://github.com/insundaycathy/M-SyMoN"}
{"Title": "MVP-Bench: Can Large Vision-Language Models Conduct Multi-level Visual Perception Like Humans?", "Abstract": "Humans perform visual perception at multiple levels, including low-level object recognition and high-level semantic interpretation such as behavior understanding. Subtle differences in low-level details can lead to substantial changes in high-level perception. For example, substituting the shopping bag held by a person with a gun suggests violent behavior, implying criminal or violent activity. Despite significant advancements in various multimodal tasks, Large Visual Language Models (LVLMs) remain unexplored in their capabilities to conduct such multi-level visual perceptions.To investigate the perception gap between LVLMs and humans, we introduce MVP-Bench, the first visual{--}language benchmark systematically evaluating both low- and high-level visual perception of LVLMs. We construct MVP-Bench across natural and synthetic images to investigate how manipulated content influences model perception. Using MVP-Bench, we diagnose the visual perception of 10 open-source and 2 closed-source LVLMs, showing that high-level perception tasks significantly challenge existing LVLMs. The state-of-the-art GPT-4o only achieves an accuracy of 56{\\%} on Yes/No questions, compared with 74{\\%} in low-level scenarios. Furthermore, the performance gap between natural and manipulated images indicates that current LVLMs do not generalize in understanding the visual semantics of synthetic images as humans do."}
{"Title": "Topic Modeling: Contextual Token Embeddings Are All You Need", "Abstract": "The goal of topic modeling is to find meaningful topics that capture the information present in a collection of documents. The main challenges of topic modeling are finding the optimal number of topics, labeling the topics, segmenting documents by topic, and evaluating topic model performance. Current neural approaches have tackled some of these problems but none have been able to solve all of them. We introduce a novel topic modeling approach, Contextual-Top2Vec, which uses document contextual token embeddings, it creates hierarchical topics, finds topic spans within documents and labels topics with phrases rather than just words. We propose the use of BERTScore to evaluate topic coherence and to evaluate how informative topics are of the underlying documents. Our model outperforms the current state-of-the-art models on a comprehensive set of topic model evaluation metrics."}
{"Title": "Dense Passage Retrieval: Is it Retrieving?", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) internally store repositories of knowledge. However, their access to this repository is imprecise and they frequently hallucinate information that is not true or does not exist. A paradigm called Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) promises to fix these issues. Dense passage retrieval (DPR) is the first step in this paradigm. In this paper, we analyze the role of DPR fine-tuning and how it affects the model being trained. DPR fine-tunes pre-trained networks to enhance the alignment of the embeddings between queries and relevant textual data. We explore DPR-trained models mechanistically by using a combination of probing, layer activation analysis, and model editing. Our experiments show that DPR training \\textbf{decentralizes} how knowledge is stored in the network, creating \\textbf{multiple access pathways} to the same information. We also uncover a \\textbf{limitation} in this training style: the \\textbf{internal knowledge} of the pre-trained model \\textbf{bounds} what the retrieval model can retrieve. These findings suggest a few possible directions for dense retrieval: (1) expose the DPR training process to more knowledge so more can be decentralized, (2) inject facts as decentralized representations, (3) model and incorporate knowledge uncertainty in the retrieval process, and (4) directly map internal model knowledge to a knowledge base."}
{"Title": "Margin Matching Preference Optimization: Enhanced Model Alignment with Granular Feedback", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) fine-tuned with alignment techniques, such as reinforcement learning from human feedback, have been instrumental in developing some of the most capable AI systems to date. Despite their success, existing methods typically rely on simple binary labels, such as those indicating preferred outputs in pairwise preferences, which fail to capture the subtle differences in relative quality between pairs. To address this limitation, we introduce an approach called Margin Matching Preference Optimization (MMPO), which incorporates relative quality margins into optimization, leading to improved LLM policies and reward models. Specifically, given quality margins in pairwise preferences, we design soft target probabilities based on the Bradley-Terry model, which are then used to train models with the standard cross-entropy objective. Experiments with both human and AI feedback data demonstrate that MMPO consistently outperforms baseline methods, often by a substantial margin, on popular benchmarks including MT-bench and RewardBench. Notably, the 7B model trained with MMPO achieves state-of-the-art performance on RewardBench as of June 2024, outperforming other models of the same scale. Our analysis also shows that MMPO is more robust to overfitting, leading to better-calibrated models."}
{"Title": "AfriInstruct: Instruction Tuning of African Languages for Diverse Tasks", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) for African languages perform worse compared to their performance in high-resource languages. To address this issue, we introduce AfriInstruct, which specializes in instruction-tuning of multiple African languages covering various tasks. We trained the LLaMa-2-7B using continual pretraining and instruction fine-tuning, which demonstrates superior performance across multiple tasks. Our mixed task evaluation shows that our model outperforms GPT-3.5-Turbo and other baseline models of similar size. Our contributions fill a critical gap of LLM performance between high-resource and African languages."}
{"Title": "LLMs as Collaborator: Demands-Guided Collaborative Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Commonsense Knowledge-Grounded Open-Domain Dialogue Systems", "Abstract": "Capturing the unique knowledge demands for each dialogue context plays a crucial role in commonsense knowledge-grounded response generation. However, current CoT-based and RAG-based methods are still unsatisfactory in the era of LLMs because 1) CoT often overestimates the capabilities of LLMs and treats them as isolated knowledge Producers; thus, CoT only uses the inherent knowledge of LLM itself and then suffers from the hallucination and outdated knowledge, and 2) RAG underestimates LLMs because LLMs are the passive Receivers that can only use the knowledge retrieved by external retrievers. In contrast, this work regards LLMs as interactive Collaborators and proposes a novel DCRAG (Demands-Guided Collaborative RAG) to leverage the knowledge from both LLMs and the external knowledge graph. Specifically, DCRAG designs three Thought-then-Generate stages to collaboratively investigate knowledge demands, followed by a Demands-Guided Knowledge Retrieval to retrieve external knowledge by interacting with LLMs. Extensive experiments and in-depth analyses on English DailyDialog and Chinese Diamante datasets proved DCRAG can effectively capture knowledge demands and bring higher-quality responses."}
{"Title": "ClaimVer: Explainable Claim-Level Verification and Evidence Attribution of Text Through Knowledge Graphs", "Abstract": "In the midst of widespread misinformation and disinformation through social media and the proliferation of AI-generated texts, it has become increasingly difficult for people to validate and trust information they encounter. Many fact-checking approaches and tools have been developed, but they often lack appropriate explainability or granularity to be useful in various contexts. A text validation method that is easy to use, accessible, and can perform fine-grained evidence attribution has become crucial. More importantly, building user trust in such a method requires presenting the rationale behind each prediction, as research shows this significantly influences people{'}s belief in automated systems. Localizing and bringing users{'} attention to the specific problematic content is also paramount, instead of providing simple blanket labels. In this paper, we present \\textit{ClaimVer, a human-centric framework} tailored to meet users{'} informational and verification needs by generating rich annotations and thereby reducing cognitive load. Designed to deliver comprehensive evaluations of texts, it highlights each claim, verifies it against a trusted knowledge graph (KG), presents the evidence, and provides succinct, clear explanations for each claim prediction. Finally, our framework introduces an attribution score, enhancing applicability across a wide range of downstream tasks."}
{"Title": "Empirical Prior for Text Autoencoders", "Abstract": "This paper explores the application of Variational Autoencoders (VAE) in text generation, focusing on overcoming challenges like posterior collapse and the limitations of simplistic prior distributions. We investigate a transition from VAE to text autoencoders (AE), which model a compact latent space and preserves the capability of the language model itself. Our method involves layer-wise latent vectors regularized by orthogonal constraints to encourage distinct semantic spaces. In particular, we estimate an empirical prior online from the learned latent vectors to support sampling during generation like VAE. Experimental results on standard benchmarks demonstrate that the autoencoders generate higher quality and more diverse text than the VAE-based Transformer baselines, offering an effective alternative for generative language modeling."}
{"Title": "Pedagogical Alignment of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs), when used in educational settings without pedagogical fine-tuning, often provide immediate answers rather than guiding students through the problem-solving process. This approach falls short of pedagogically best practices and limits their effectiveness as educational tools. We term the objective of training LLMs to emulate effective teaching strategies as {`}pedagogical alignment.{'} In this paper, we investigate Learning from Human Preferences () algorithms to achieve this alignment objective. A key challenge in this process is the scarcity of high-quality preference datasets to guide the alignment. To address this, we propose a novel approach for constructing a large-scale dataset using synthetic data generation techniques, eliminating the need for time-consuming and costly manual annotation. Leveraging this dataset, our experiments with Llama and Mistral models demonstrate that LHP methods outperform standard supervised fine-tuning (SFT), improving pedagogical alignment accuracy by 13.1{\\%} and 8.7{\\%} respectively.Existing evaluation methods also lack quantitative metrics to adequately measure the pedagogical alignment of LLMs. To address this gap, we propose novel perplexity-based metrics that quantify LLMs{'} tendency to provide scaffolded guidance versus direct answers, offering a robust measure of pedagogical alignment. Our analysis provides compelling evidence for the superiority of methods over SFT in optimizing LLMs{'} behavior, underscoring the potential of methods in better aligning LLMs with educational objectives and fostering effective learning experiences. Code and models are available here."}
{"Title": "Reference-based Metrics Disprove Themselves in Question Generation", "Abstract": "Reference-based metrics such as BLEU and BERTScore are widely used to evaluate question generation (QG). In this study, on QG benchmarks such as SQuAD and HotpotQA, we find that using human-written references cannot guarantee the effectiveness of the reference-based metrics. Most QG benchmarks have only one reference; we replicate the annotation process and collect another reference. A good metric is expected to grade a human-validated question no worse than generated questions. However, the results of reference-based metrics on our newly collected reference disproved the metrics themselves. We propose a reference-free metric consisted of multi-dimensional criteria such as naturalness, answerability, and complexity, utilizing large language models. These criteria are not constrained to the syntactic or semantic of a single reference question, and the metric does not require a diverse set of references. Experiments reveal that our metric accurately distinguishes between high-quality questions and flawed ones, and achieves state-of-the-art alignment with human judgment."}
{"Title": "Regression Aware Inference with LLMs", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have shown strong results on a range of applications, including regression and scoring tasks.Typically, one obtains outputs from an LLM via autoregressive sampling from the model{'}s output distribution. We show that this inference strategy can be sub-optimal for common regression and scoring evaluation metrics. As a remedy, we build on prior work on Minimum Bayes Risk decoding,and propose alternate inference strategies that estimate the Bayes-optimal solution for regression and scoring metrics in closed-form from sampled responses.We show that our proposal significantly improves over baselines across datasets and models."}
{"Title": "R^3-NL2GQL: A Model Coordination and Knowledge Graph Alignment Approach for NL2GQL", "Abstract": "While current tasks of converting natural language to SQL (NL2SQL) using Foundation Models have shown impressive achievements, adapting these approaches for converting natural language to Graph Query Language (NL2GQL) encounters hurdles due to the distinct nature of GQL compared to SQL, alongside the diverse forms of GQL. Moving away from traditional rule-based and slot-filling methodologies, we introduce a novel approach, $R^3$-NL2GQL, integrating both small and large Foundation Models for ranking, rewriting, and refining tasks. This method leverages the interpretative strengths of smaller models for initial ranking and rewriting stages, while capitalizing on the superior generalization and query generation prowess of larger models for the final transformation of natural language queries into GQL formats. Addressing the scarcity of datasets in this emerging field, we have developed a bilingual dataset, sourced from graph database manuals and selected open-source Knowledge Graphs (KGs). Our evaluation of this methodology on this dataset demonstrates its promising efficacy and robustness."}
{"Title": "Updating Large Language Models' Memories with Time Constraints", "Abstract": "By incorporating the latest external knowledge, large language models (LLMs) can modify their internal memory. However, in practical applications, LLMs may encounter outdated information, necessitating the filtering of such data and updating of knowledge beyond internal memory. This paper explores whether LLMs can selectively update their memories based on the time constraints between internal memory and external knowledge. We evaluate existing LLMs using three types of data that exhibit different time constraints. Our experimental results reveal the challenges most LLMs face with time-constrained knowledge and highlight the differences in how various LLMs handle such information. Additionally, to address the difficulties LLMs encounter in understanding time constraints, we propose a two-stage decoupling framework that separates the identification and computation of time constraint into a symbolic system. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed framework yields an improvement of over 60{\\%} in ChatGPT{'}s performance, and achieves a 12-24{\\%} enhancement in state-of-the-art LLM GPT-4."}
{"Title": "DLoRA: Distributed Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning Solution for Large Language Model", "Abstract": "To enhance the performance of large language models (LLM) on downstream tasks, one solution is to fine-tune certain LLM parameters and make them better align with the characteristics of the training dataset. This process is commonly known as parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT). Due to the scale of LLM, PEFT operations are usually executed in the public environment (e.g., cloud server). This necessitates sharing sensitive user data across public environments, thereby raising potential privacy concerns. To tackle these challenges, we propose a distributed PEFT framework called DLoRA. DLoRA enables scalable PEFT operations to be performed collaboratively between the cloud and user devices. Coupled with the proposed Kill and Revive algorithm, the evaluation results demonstrate that DLoRA can significantly reduce the computation and communication workload over user devices while achieving superior accuracy and privacy protection."}
{"Title": "Cross-modality Information Check for Detecting Jailbreaking in Multimodal Large Language Models", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Attacks against Abstractive Text Summarization Models through Lead Bias and Influence Functions", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have introduced novel opportunities for text comprehension and generation. Yet, they are vulnerable to adversarial perturbations and data poisoning attacks, particularly in tasks like text classification and translation. However, the adversarial robustness of abstractive text summarization models remains less explored. In this work, we unveil a novel approach by exploiting the inherent lead bias in summarization models, to perform adversarial perturbations. Furthermore, we introduce an innovative application of influence functions, to execute data poisoning, which compromises the model{'}s integrity. This approach not only shows a skew in the models{'} behavior to produce desired outcomes but also shows a new behavioral change, where models under attack tend to generate extractive summaries rather than abstractive summaries."}
{"Title": "One Model is All You Need: ByT5-Sanskrit, a Unified Model for Sanskrit NLP Tasks", "Abstract": "Morphologically rich languages are notoriously challenging to process for downstream NLP applications. This paper presents a new pretrained language model, ByT5-Sanskrit, designed for NLP applications involving the morphologically rich language Sanskrit. We evaluate ByT5-Sanskrit on established Sanskrit word segmentation tasks, where it outperforms previous data-driven approaches by a considerable margin and matches the performance of the current best lexicon-based model. It is easier to deploy and more robust to data not covered by external linguistic resources. It also achieves new state-of-the-art results in Vedic Sanskrit dependency parsing and OCR post-correction tasks. Additionally, based on the Digital Corpus of Sanskrit, we introduce a novel multitask dataset for the joint training of Sanskrit word segmentation, lemmatization, and morphosyntactic tagging tasks. We fine-tune ByT5-Sanskrit on this dataset, creating a versatile multitask model for various downstream Sanskrit applications. We have used this model in Sanskrit linguistic annotation projects, in information retrieval setups, and as a preprocessing step in a Sanskrit machine translation pipeline. We also show that our approach yields new best scores for lemmatization and dependency parsing of other morphologically rich languages. We thus demonstrate that byte-level pretrained language models can achieve excellent performance for morphologically rich languages, outperforming tokenizer-based models and presenting an important vector of exploration when constructing NLP pipelines for such languages."}
{"Title": "NALA: an Effective and Interpretable Entity Alignment Method", "Abstract": "Entity alignment (EA) aims to find equivalent entities between two Knowledge Graphs. Existing embedding-based EA methods usually encode entities as embeddings, triples as embeddings{'} constraint and learn to align the embeddings. However, the details of the underlying logical inference steps among the alignment process are usually omitted, resulting in inadequate inference process. In this paper, we introduce NALA, an entity alignment method that captures three types of logical inference paths with Non-Axiomatic Logic (NAL). Type 1{\\&}2 align the entity pairs and type 3 aligns relations. NALA iteratively aligns entities and relations by integrating the conclusions of the inference paths. Our method is logically interpretable and extensible by introducing NAL, and thus suitable for various EA settings. Experimental results show that NALA outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of Hits@1, achieving 0.98+ on all three datasets of DBP15K with both supervised and unsupervised settings. We offer a pioneering in-depth analysis of the fundamental principles of entity alignment, approaching the subject from a unified and logical perspective. Our code is available at https://github.com/13998151318/NALA."}
{"Title": "ConTReGen: Context-driven Tree-structured Retrieval for Open-domain Long-form Text Generation", "Abstract": "Open-domain long-form text generation requires generating coherent, comprehensive responses that address complex queries with both breadth and depth. This task is challenging due to the need to accurately capture diverse facets of input queries. Existing iterative retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) approaches often struggle to delve deeply into each facet of complex queries and integrate knowledge from various sources effectively. This paper introduces ConTReGen, a novel framework that employs a context-driven, tree-structured retrieval approach to enhance the depth and relevance of retrieved content. ConTReGen integrates a hierarchical, top-down in-depth exploration of query facets with a systematic bottom-up synthesis, ensuring comprehensive coverage and coherent integration of multifaceted information. Extensive experiments on multiple datasets, including LFQA and ODSUM, alongside a newly introduced dataset, ODSUM-WikiHow, demonstrate that ConTReGen outperforms existing state-of-the-art RAG models."}
{"Title": "Aligners: Decoupling LLMs and Alignment", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) need to be aligned with human expectations to ensure their safety and utility in most applications. Alignment is challenging, costly, and needs to be repeated for every LLM and alignment criterion. We propose to decouple LLMs and alignment by training *aligner* models that can be used to align any LLM for a given criteria on an as-needed basis, thus also reducing the potential negative impacts of alignment on performance. Our recipe for training the aligner models solely relies on synthetic data generated with a (prompted) LLM and can be easily adjusted for a variety of alignment criteria. We use the same synthetic data to train *inspectors*, binary miss-alignment classification models to guide a *squad* of multiple aligners. Our empirical results demonstrate consistent improvements when applying aligner squad to various LLMs, including chat-aligned models, across several instruction-following and red-teaming datasets."}
{"Title": "TOWER: Tree Organized Weighting for Evaluating Complex Instructions", "Abstract": "Evaluating the ability of large language models (LLMs) to follow complex human-written instructions is essential for their deployment in real-world applications. While benchmarks like Chatbot Arena use human judges to assess model performance, they are resource-intensive and time-consuming. Alternative methods using LLMs as judges, such as AlpacaEval, MT Bench, WildBench, and InFoBench offer improvements but still do not capture that certain complex instruction aspects are more important than others to follow.To address this gap, we propose a novel evaluation metric, TOWER, that incorporates human-judged importance into the assessment of complex instruction following. We show that human annotators agree with tree-based representations of these complex instructions nearly as much as they agree with other human annotators. We release tree-based annotations of the InFoBench dataset and the corresponding evaluation code to facilitate future research."}
{"Title": "Extractive Medical Entity Disambiguation with Memory Mechanism and Memorized Entity Information", "Abstract": "Medical entity disambiguation (MED) aims to ground medical mentions in text with ontological entities in knowledge bases (KBs). A notable challenge of MED is the long medical text usually contains multiple entities{'} mentions with intricate correlations. However, limited by computation overhead, many existing methods consider only a single candidate entity mention during the disambiguation process. As such, they focus only on local MED optimal while ignoring the sole-mention disambiguation possibly boosted by richer context from other mentions{'} disambiguating processes {--} missing global optimal on entity combination in the text. Motivated by this, we propose a new approach called Extractive Medical Entity Disambiguation with Memory Mechanism and Memorized Entity Information (M3E). Specifically, we reformulate MED as a text extraction task, which simultaneously accepts the context of medical mentions, all possible candidate entities, and entity definitions, and it is then trained to extract the text span corresponding to the correct entity. Upon our new formulation, 1) to alleviate the computation overhead from the enriched context, we devise a memory mechanism module that performs memory caching, retrieval, fusion and cross-network residual; and 2) to utilize the disambiguation clues from other mentions, we design an auxiliary disambiguation module that employs a gating mechanism to assist the disambiguation of remaining mentions. Extensive experiments on two benchmark datasets demonstrate the superiority of M3E over the state-of-the-art MED methods on all metrics."}
{"Title": "QEFT: Quantization for Efficient Fine-Tuning of LLMs", "Abstract": "With the rapid growth in the use of fine-tuning for large language models (LLMs), optimizing fine-tuning while keeping inference efficient has become highly important. However, this is a challenging task as it requires improvements in all aspects, including inference speed, fine-tuning speed, memory consumption, and, most importantly, model quality. Previous studies have attempted to achieve this by combining quantization with fine-tuning, but they have failed to enhance all four aspects simultaneously. In this study, we propose a new lightweight technique called Quantization for Efficient Fine-Tuning (QEFT). QEFT accelerates both inference and fine-tuning, is supported by robust theoretical foundations, offers high flexibility, and maintains good hardware compatibility. Our extensive experiments demonstrate that QEFT matches the quality and versatility of full-precision parameter-efficient fine-tuning, while using fewer resources. Our code is available at https://github.com/xvyaward/qeft."}
{"Title": "Skills-in-Context: Unlocking Compositionality in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "We investigate how to elicit compositional generalization capabilities in large language models (LLMs). Compositional generalization empowers LLMs to solve complex problems by combining foundational skills, a critical reasoning ability akin to human intelligence. However, even the most advanced LLMs currently struggle with this form of reasoning. We examine this problem within the framework of in-context learning and find that demonstrating both foundational skills and compositional examples grounded in these skills within the same prompt context is crucial. We refer to this prompt structure as skills-in-context (SKiC). With as few as two exemplars, this in-context learning structure enables LLMs to tackle more challenging problems requiring innovative skill combinations, achieving near-perfect systematic generalization across a broad range of tasks. Intriguingly, SKiC also unlocks the latent potential of LLMs, allowing them to more actively utilize pre-existing internal skills acquired during earlier pretraining stages to solve complex reasoning problems. The SKiC structure is robust across different skill constructions and exemplar choices and demonstrates strong transferability to new tasks. Finally, inspired by our in-context learning study, we show that fine-tuning LLMs with SKiC-style data can elicit zero-shot weak-to-strong generalization, enabling the models to solve much harder problems directly with standard prompting."}
{"Title": "DrAttack: Prompt Decomposition and Reconstruction Makes Powerful LLMs Jailbreakers", "Abstract": "Safety-aligned Large Language Models (LLMs) are still vulnerable to some manual and automated jailbreak attacks, which adversarially trigger LLMs to output harmful content. However, existing jailbreaking methods usually view a harmful prompt as a whole but they are not effective at reducing LLMs{'} attention on combinations of words with malice, which well-aligned LLMs can easily reject. This paper discovers that decomposing a malicious prompt into separated sub-prompts can effectively reduce LLMs{'} attention on harmful words by presenting them to LLMs in a fragmented form, thereby addressing these limitations and improving attack effectiveness. We introduce an automatic prompt Decomposition and Reconstruction framework for jailbreaking Attack (DrAttack). DrAttack consists of three key components: (a) {`}Decomposition{'} of the original prompt into sub-prompts, (b) {`}Reconstruction{'} of these sub-prompts implicitly by In-Context Learning with semantically similar but benign reassembling example, and (c) {`}Synonym Search{'} of sub-prompts, aiming to find sub-prompts{'} synonyms that maintain the original intent while jailbreaking LLMs. An extensive empirical study across multiple open-source and closed-source LLMs demonstrates that, with fewer queries, DrAttack obtains a substantial gain of success rate on powerful LLMs over prior SOTA attackers. Notably, the success rate of 80{\\%} on GPT-4 surpassed previous art by 65{\\%}. Code and data are made publicly available at https://turningpoint-ai.github.io/DrAttack/."}
{"Title": "Can LLMs Replace Clinical Doctors? Exploring Bias in Disease Diagnosis by Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The bias of disease prediction in Large Language Models (LLMs) is a critical yet underexplored issue, with potential implications for healthcare outcomes and equity. As LLMs increasingly find applications in healthcare, understanding and addressing their biases becomes paramount. This study focuses on this crucial topic, investigating the bias of disease prediction in models such as GPT-4, ChatGPT, and Qwen1.5-72b across gender, age range, and disease judgment behaviors. Utilizing a comprehensive real-clinical health record dataset of over 330,000 entries, we uncover that all three models exhibit distinct biases, indicating a pervasive issue of unfairness. To measure this, we introduce a novel metric{--}the diagnosis bias score, which reflects the ratio of prediction numbers to label numbers. Our in-depth analysis, based on this score, sheds light on the inherent biases in these models. In response to these findings, we propose a simple yet effective prompt-based solution to alleviate the observed bias in disease prediction with LLMs. This research underscores the importance of fairness in AI, particularly in healthcare applications, and offers a practical approach to enhance the equity of disease prediction models."}
{"Title": "BLADE: Benchmarking Language Model Agents for Data-Driven Science", "Abstract": "Data-driven scientific discovery requires the iterative integration of scientific domain knowledge, statistical expertise, and an understanding of data semantics to make nuanced analytical decisions, e.g., about which variables, transformations, and statistical models to consider. LM-based agents equipped with planning, memory, and code execution capabilities have the potential to support data-driven science. However, evaluating agents on such open-ended tasks is challenging due to multiple valid approaches, partially correct steps, and different ways to express the same decisions. To address these challenges, we present BLADE, a benchmark to automatically evaluate agents{'} multifaceted approaches to open-ended research questions. BLADE consists of 12 datasets and research questions drawn from existing scientific literature, with ground truth collected from independent analyses by expert data scientists and researchers. To automatically evaluate agent responses, we developed corresponding computational methods to match different representations of analyses to this ground truth. Though language models possess considerable world knowledge, our evaluation shows that they are often limited to basic analyses. However, agents capable of interacting with the underlying data demonstrate improved, but still non-optimal, diversity in their analytical decision making. Our work enables the evaluation of agents for data-driven science and provides researchers deeper insights into agents{'} analysis approaches."}
{"Title": "Phonetic and Lexical Discovery of Canine Vocalization", "Abstract": "This paper attempts to discover communication patterns automatically within dog vocalizations in a data-driven approach, which breaks the barrier previous approaches that rely on human prior knowledge on limited data. We present a self-supervised approach with HuBERT, enabling the accurate classification of phones, and an adaptive grammar induction method that identifies phone sequence patterns that suggest a preliminary vocabulary within dog vocalizations. Our results show that a subset of this vocabulary has substantial causality relations with certain canine activities, suggesting signs of stable semantics associated with these {``}words{''}."}
{"Title": "Audio-Based Linguistic Feature Extraction for Enhancing Multi-lingual and Low-Resource Text-to-Speech", "Abstract": "The difficulty of acquiring abundant, high-quality data, especially in multi-lingual contexts, has sparked interest in addressing low-resource scenarios. Moreover, current literature rely on fixed expressions from language IDs, which results in the inadequate learning of language representations, and the failure to generate speech in unseen languages. To address these challenges, we propose a novel method that directly extracts linguistic features from audio input while effectively filtering out miscellaneous acoustic information including speaker-specific attributes like timbre. Subjective and objective evaluations affirm the effectiveness of our approach for multi-lingual text-to-speech, and highlight its superiority in low-resource transfer learning for previously unseen language."}
{"Title": "LexC-Gen: Generating Data for Extremely Low-Resource Languages with Large Language Models and Bilingual Lexicons", "Abstract": "Data scarcity in low-resource languages can be addressed with word-to-word translations from labeled task data in high-resource languages using bilingual lexicons. However, bilingual lexicons often have limited lexical overlap with task data, which results in poor translation coverage and lexicon utilization. We propose lexicon-conditioned data generation LexC-Gen, a method that generates low-resource-language classification task data at scale. Specifically, LexC-Gen first uses high-resource-language words from bilingual lexicons to generate lexicon-compatible task data, and then it translates them into low-resource languages with bilingual lexicons via word translation. Across 17 extremely low-resource languages, LexC-Gen generated data is competitive with expert-translated gold data, and yields on average 5.6 and 8.9 points improvement over existing lexicon-based word translation methods on sentiment analysis and topic classification tasks respectively. Through ablation study, we show that conditioning on bilingual lexicons is the key component of LexC-Gen. LexC-Gen serves as a potential solution to close the performance gap between open-source multilingual models, such as BLOOMZ and Aya-101, and state-of-the-art commercial models like GPT-4o on low-resource-language tasks."}
{"Title": "Beyond Demographics: Aligning Role-playing LLM-based Agents Using Human Belief Networks", "Abstract": "Creating human-like large language model (LLM) agents is crucial for faithful social simulation. Having LLMs role-play based on demographic information sometimes improves human likeness but often does not. This study assessed whether LLM alignment with human behavior can be improved by integrating information from empirically-derived human belief networks. Using data from a human survey, we estimated a belief network encompassing 64 topics loading on nine non-overlapping latent factors. We then seeded LLM-based agents with an opinion on one topic, and assessed the alignment of its expressed opinions on remaining test topics with corresponding human data. Role-playing based on demographic information alone did not align LLM and human opinions, but seeding the agent with a single belief greatly improved alignment for topics related in the belief network, and not for topics outside the network. These results suggest a novel path for human-LLM belief alignment in work seeking to simulate and understand patterns of belief distributions in society."}
{"Title": "PRoDeliberation: Parallel Robust Deliberation for End-to-End Spoken Language Understanding", "Abstract": "Spoken Language Understanding (SLU) is a critical component of voice assistants; it consists of converting speech to semantic parses for task execution. Previous works have explored end-to-end models to improve the quality and robustness of SLU models with Deliberation, however these models have remained autoregressive, resulting in higher latencies. In this work we introduce PRoDeliberation, a novel method leveraging a Connectionist Temporal Classification-based decoding strategy as well as a denoising objective to train robust non-autoregressive deliberation models. We show that PRoDeliberation achieves the latency reduction of parallel decoding (2-10x improvement over autoregressive models) while retaining the ability to correct Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) mistranscriptions of autoregressive deliberation systems. We further show that the design of the denoising training allows PRoDeliberation to overcome the limitations of small ASR devices, and we provide analysis on the necessity of each component of the system."}
{"Title": "Downstream Trade-offs of a Family of Text Watermarks", "Abstract": "Watermarking involves implanting an imperceptible signal into generated text that can later be detected via statistical tests. A prominent family of watermarking strategies for LLMs embeds this signal by upsampling a (pseudorandomly-chosen) subset of tokens at every generation step. However, such signals alter the model{'}s output distribution and can have unintended effects on its downstream performance. In this work, we evaluate the performance of LLMs watermarked using three different strategies over a diverse suite of tasks including those cast as k-class classification (CLS), multiple choice question answering (MCQ), short-form generation (e.g., open-ended question answering) and long-form generation (e.g., translation) tasks. We find that watermarks (under realistic hyperparameters) can cause significant drops in LLMs{'} effective utility across all tasks. We observe drops of 10 to 20{\\%} in CLS tasks in the average case, which shoot up to 100{\\%} in the worst case. We notice degradations of about 7{\\%} in MCQ tasks, 10-15{\\%} in short-form generation, and 5-15{\\%} in long-form generation tasks. Our findings highlight the trade-offs that users should be cognizant of when using watermarked models."}
{"Title": "Knowledge-Aware Reasoning over Multimodal Semi-structured Tables", "Abstract": "Existing datasets for tabular question answering typically focus exclusively on text within cells. However, real-world data is inherently multimodal, often blending images such as symbols, faces, icons, patterns, and charts with textual content in tables. With the evolution of AI models capable of multimodal reasoning, it is pertinent to assess their efficacy in handling such structured data. This study investigates whether current AI models can perform knowledge-aware reasoning on multimodal structured data. We explore their ability to reason on tables that integrate both images and text, introducing MMTabQA, a new dataset designed for this purpose. Our experiments highlight substantial challenges for current AI models in effectively integrating and interpreting multiple text and image inputs, understanding visual context, and comparing visual content across images. These findings establish our dataset as a robust benchmark for advancing AI{'}s comprehension and capabilities in analyzing multimodal structured data."}
{"Title": "Representational Isomorphism and Alignment of Multilingual Large Language Models", "Abstract": "In this paper, we investigate the capability of Large Language Models (LLMs) to represent texts in multilingual contexts. Our findings show that sentence representations derived from LLMs exhibit a high degree of isomorphism across languages.This existing isomorphism can facilitate representational alignments in zero-shot and few-shot settings.Specifically, by applying a contrastive objective at the representation level with only a small number of translation pairs (e.g., 100), we substantially improve models{'} performance on Semantic Textual Similarity (STS) tasks across languages. This representation-level approach proves to be more efficient and effective for semantic alignment than continued pretraining or instruction tuning. Interestingly, we also observe substantial STS improvements within individual languages, even without a monolingual objective specifically designed for this purpose."}
{"Title": "SWAG: Storytelling With Action Guidance", "Abstract": "Automated long-form story generation typically employs long-context large language models (LLMs) for one-shot creation, which can produce cohesive but not necessarily engaging content. We introduce Storytelling With Action Guidance (SWAG), a novel approach to storytelling with LLMs. Our approach reduces story writing to a search problem through a two-model feedback loop: one LLM generates story content, and another auxiliary LLM is used to choose the next best {``}action{''} to steer the story{'}s future direction. Our results show that SWAG can substantially outperform previous end-to-end story generation techniques when evaluated by GPT-4 and through human evaluation. Our SWAG pipeline using only small open-source models surpasses GPT-3.5-Turbo."}
{"Title": "Random Label Forests: An Ensemble Method with Label Subsampling For Extreme Multi-Label Problems", "Abstract": "Text classification is one of the essential topics in natural language processing, and each text is often associated with multiple labels. Recently, the number of labels has become larger and larger, especially in the applications of e-commerce, so handling text-related e-commerce problems further requires a large memory space in many existing multi-label learning methods. To address the space concern, utilizing a distributed system to share that large memory requirement is a possible solution. We propose {``}random label forests,{''} a distributed ensemble method with label subsampling, for handling extremely large-scale labels. Random label forests can reduce memory usage per computer while keeping competitive performances over real-world data sets."}
{"Title": "Active Listening: Personalized Question Generation in Open-Domain Social Conversation with User Model Based Prompting", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) capable of casual conversation have recently become widely available. We hypothesize that users of conversational systems want a more personalized experience, and existing work shows that users are highly receptive to personalized questions (PQs). Question Generation tasks, however, focus on factual questions from textual excerpts. To create a PQ generator, we first identify over 400 real user interests by anonymously aggregating {\\textasciitilde}39K user models. We then populate prompt templates with these 400 interests and use an LLM to generate PQs customized to user interests. The result is PerQs, a novel corpus of {\\textasciitilde}19K question/answer pairs. We evaluate PerQs at scale in the unique context of the Alexa Prize. Our results show significant positive effects on perceived conversation quality. We then fine-tune, deploy, and evaluate PerQy, a neural model that generates PQs in real-time. When evaluated against several competitive LLM baselines, PerQy produced the most natural and engaging responses."}
{"Title": "Query-based Cross-Modal Projector Bolstering Mamba Multimodal LLM", "Abstract": "The Transformer{'}s quadratic complexity with input length imposes an unsustainable computational load on large language models (LLMs). In contrast, the Selective Scan Structured State-Space Model, or Mamba, addresses this computational challenge effectively. This paper explores a query-based cross-modal projector designed to bolster Mamba{'}s efficiency for vision-language modeling by compressing visual tokens based on input through the cross-attention mechanism. This innovative projector also removes the need for manually designing the 2D scan order of original image features when converting them into an input sequence for Mamba LLM. Experimental results across various vision-language understanding benchmarks show that the proposed cross-modal projector enhances Mamba-based multimodal LLMs, boosting both performance and throughput."}
{"Title": "LLM as a metric critic for low resource relation identification", "Abstract": "In extremely low resource relation identification scenario, small language models (SLMs) incline to overfit, which significantly diminishes their accuracy. Recently, large language models (LLMs) are gradually applied to classification tasks with converting original objective into the generation task via in-context learning. However, abundance of the classifier categories poses challenges in selecting demonstrations. Moreover, the mapping between category labels and textual descriptions requires expensive expert knowledge, thereby constraining the efficacy of in-context learning for LLMs. We uphold that SLM is optimal for handling classification tasks, and its shortcomings in the low resource setting can be mitigated by leveraging LLM. Hence, we propose a co-evolution strategy on SLM {\\&} LLM for relation identification. Specifically, LLM provides essential background knowledge to assist training process of the SLM classifier, while evaluation metrics from the classifier, in turn, offer valuable insights to refine the generation prompts of the LLM. We conduct experiments on several datasets which demonstrates preponderance of the proposed model."}
{"Title": "Experience as Source for Anticipation and Planning: Experiential Policy Learning for Target-driven Recommendation Dialogues", "Abstract": "Target-driven recommendation dialogues present unique challenges in dialogue management due to the necessity of anticipating user interactions for successful conversations. Current methods face significant limitations: (I) inadequate capabilities for conversation anticipation, (II) computational inefficiencies due to costly simulations, and (III) neglect of valuable past dialogue experiences. To address these limitations, we propose a new framework, Experiential Policy Learning (EPL), for enhancing such dialogues. EPL embodies the principle of Learning From Experience, facilitating anticipation with an experiential scoring function that estimates dialogue state potential using similar past interactions stored in long-term memory. To demonstrate its flexibility, we introduce Tree-structured EPL (T-EPL) as one possible training-free realization with Large Language Models (LLMs) and Monte-Carlo Tree Search (MCTS). T-EPL assesses past dialogue states with LLMs while utilizing MCTS to achieve hierarchical and multi-level reasoning. Extensive experiments on two published datasets demonstrate the superiority and efficacy of T-EPL."}
{"Title": "Factcheck-Bench: Fine-Grained Evaluation Benchmark for Automatic Fact-checkers", "Abstract": "The increased use of large language models (LLMs) across a variety of real-world applications calls for mechanisms to verify the factual accuracy of their outputs. In this work, we present Factcheck-Bench, a holistic end-to-end framework for annotating and evaluating the factuality of LLM-generated responses, which encompasses a multi-stage annotation scheme designed to yield detailed labels for fact-checking and correcting not just the final prediction, but also the intermediate steps that a fact-checking system might need to take. Based on this framework, we construct an open-domain factuality benchmark in three-levels of granularity: claim, sentence, and document. We further propose a system, Factcheck-GPT, which follows our framework, and we show that it outperforms several popular LLM fact-checkers. We make our annotation tool, annotated data, benchmark, and code available at https://github.com/yuxiaw/Factcheck-GPT."}
{"Title": "Open-RAG: Enhanced Retrieval Augmented Reasoning with Open-Source Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) has been shown to enhance the factual accuracy of Large Language Models (LLMs) by providing external evidence, but existing methods often suffer from limited reasoning capabilities (e.g., multi-hop complexities) in effectively using such evidence, particularly when using open-source LLMs. To mitigate this gap, in this paper, we introduce a novel framework, **Open-RAG**, designed to enhance reasoning capabilities in RAG with open-source LLMs. Our framework transforms an arbitrary dense LLM into a parameter-efficient sparse mixture of experts (MoE) model capable of handling complex reasoning tasks, including both single- and multi-hop queries. Open-RAG uniquely trains the model to navigate challenging distractors that appear relevant but are misleading. By combining the constructive learning and architectural transformation, Open-RAG leverages latent learning, dynamically selecting relevant experts and integrating external knowledge effectively for more accurate and contextually relevant responses. Additionally, we propose a hybrid adaptive retrieval method to determine retrieval necessity and balance the trade-off between performance gain and inference speed. Experimental results show that Open-RAG outperforms state-of-the-art LLMs and RAG models in various knowledge-intensive tasks. Our method based on Llama2-7B sets new benchmarks, surpassing ChatGPT-RAG and Self-RAG. For example, in multi-hop HotpotQA, it achieves an EM score of 63.3, compared to RAG 2.0{'}s 54 and Command R+{'}s 60."}
{"Title": "Cactus: Towards Psychological Counseling Conversations using Cognitive Behavioral Theory", "Abstract": "Recently, the demand for psychological counseling has significantly increased as more individuals express concerns about their mental health. This surge has accelerated efforts to improve the accessibility of counseling by using large language models (LLMs) as counselors. To ensure client privacy, training open-source LLMs faces a key challenge: the absence of realistic counseling datasets. To address this, we introduce Cactus, a multi-turn dialogue dataset that emulates real-life interactions using the goal-oriented and structured approach of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT).We create a diverse and realistic dataset by designing clients with varied, specific personas, and having counselors systematically apply CBT techniques in their interactions. To assess the quality of our data, we benchmark against established psychological criteria used to evaluate real counseling sessions, ensuring alignment with expert evaluations.Experimental results demonstrate that Camel, a model trained with Cactus, outperforms other models in counseling skills, highlighting its effectiveness and potential as a counseling agent.We make our data, model, and code publicly available."}
{"Title": "TextLap: Customizing Language Models for Text-to-Layout Planning", "Abstract": "Automatic generation of graphical layouts is crucial for many real-world applications, including designing posters, flyers, advertisements, and graphical user interfaces. Given the incredible ability of Large language models (LLMs) in both natural language understanding and generation, we believe that we could customize an LLM to help people create compelling graphical layouts starting with only text instructions from the user. We call our method TextLap (text-based layout planning). It uses a curated instruction-based layout planning dataset (InsLap) to customize LLMs as a graphic designer. Human annotators are asked to build a benchmark to evaluate different layout planning models. We demonstrate the effectiveness of TextLap and show that it outperforms strong baselines, including GPT-4 based methods, for document generation and graphical design benchmarks."}
{"Title": "Data-driven Coreference-based Ontology Building", "Abstract": "While coreference resolution is traditionally used as a component in individual document understanding, in this work we take a more global view and explore what can we learn about a domain from the set of all document-level coreference relations that are present in a large corpus. We derive coreference chains from a corpus of 30 million biomedical abstracts and construct a graph based on the string phrases within these chains, establishing connections between phrases if they co-occur within the same coreference chain. We then use the graph structure and the betweeness centrality measure to distinguish between edges denoting hierarchy, identity and noise, assign directionality to edges denoting hierarchy, and split nodes (strings) that correspond to multiple distinct concepts. The result is a rich, data-driven ontology over concepts in the biomedical domain, parts of which overlaps significantly with human-authored ontologies. We release the coreference chains and resulting ontology under a creative-commons license."}
{"Title": "Retrieving Contextual Information for Long-Form Question Answering using Weak Supervision", "Abstract": "Long-form question answering (LFQA) aims at generating in-depth answers to end-user questions, providing relevant information beyond the direct answer. However, existing retrievers are typically optimized towards information that directly targets the question, missing out on such contextual information. Furthermore, there is a lack of training data for relevant context. To this end, we propose and compare different weak supervision techniques to optimize retrieval for contextual information. Experiments demonstrate improvements on the end-to-end QA performance on ASQA, a dataset for long-form question answering. Importantly, as more contextual information is retrieved, we improve the relevant page recall for LFQA by 14.7{\\%} and the groundedness of generated long-form answers by 12.5{\\%}. Finally, we show that long-form answers often anticipate likely follow-up questions, via experiments on a conversational QA dataset."}
{"Title": "Persuasiveness of Generated Free-Text Rationales in Subjective Decisions: A Case Study on Pairwise Argument Ranking", "Abstract": "Generating free-text rationales is among the emergent capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). These rationales have been found to enhance LLM performance across various NLP tasks. Recently, there has been growing interest in using these rationales to provide insights for various important downstream tasks. In this paper, we analyze generated free-text rationales in tasks with subjective answers, emphasizing the importance of rationalization in such scenarios. We focus on pairwise argument ranking, a highly subjective task with significant potential for real-world applications, such as debate assistance. We evaluate the persuasiveness of rationales generated by nine LLMs to support their subjective choices. Our findings suggest that open-source LLMs, particularly Llama2-70B-chat, are capable of providing highly persuasive rationalizations, surpassing even GPT models. Additionally, our experiments demonstrate that the persuasiveness of the generated rationales can be enhanced by guiding their persuasive elements through prompting or self-refinement techniques."}
{"Title": "Semantic Token Reweighting for Interpretable and Controllable Text Embeddings in CLIP", "Abstract": "A text encoder within Vision-Language Models (VLMs) like CLIP plays a crucial role in translating textual input into an embedding space shared with images, thereby facilitating the interpretative analysis of vision tasks through natural language. Despite the varying significance of different textual elements within a sentence depending on the context, efforts to account for variation of importance in constructing text embeddings have been lacking. We propose a framework of Semantic Token Reweighting to build Interpretable text embeddings (SToRI), which incorporates controllability as well. SToRI refines the text encoding process in CLIP by differentially weighting semantic elements based on contextual importance, enabling finer control over emphasis responsive to data-driven insights and user preferences. The efficacy of SToRI is demonstrated through comprehensive experiments on few-shot image classification and image retrieval tailored to user preferences."}
{"Title": "DYNAMICQA: Tracing Internal Knowledge Conflicts in Language Models", "Abstract": "Knowledge-intensive language understanding tasks require Language Models (LMs) to integrate relevant context, mitigating their inherent weaknesses, such as incomplete or outdated knowledge. However, conflicting knowledge can be present in the LM{'}s parameters, termed intra-memory conflict, which can affect a model{'}s propensity to accept contextual knowledge. To study the effect of intra-memory conflict on LM{'}s ability to accept the relevant context, we utilise two knowledge conflict measures and a novel dataset containing inherently conflicting data, DYNAMICQA. This dataset includes facts with a temporal dynamic nature where facts can change over time and disputable dynamic facts, which can change depending on the viewpoint. DYNAMICQA is the first to include real-world knowledge conflicts and provide context to study the link between the different types of knowledge conflicts. We also evaluate several measures on their ability to reflect the presence of intra-memory conflict: semantic entropy and a novel coherent persuasion score. With our extensive experiments, we verify that LMs show a greater degree of intra-memory conflict with dynamic facts compared to facts that have a single truth value. Further, we reveal that facts with intra-memory conflict are harder to update with context, suggesting that retrieval-augmented generation will struggle with the most commonly adapted facts"}
{"Title": "LLMs to Replace Crowdsourcing For Parallel Data Creation? The Case of Text Detoxification", "Abstract": "The lack of high-quality training data remains a significant challenge in NLP. Manual annotation methods, such as crowdsourcing, are costly, require intricate task design skills, and, if used incorrectly, may result in poor data quality. From the other hand, LLMs have demonstrated proficiency in many NLP tasks, including zero-shot and few-shot data annotation. However, they often struggle with text detoxification due to alignment constraints and fail to generate the required detoxified text. This work explores the potential of modern open source LLMs to annotate parallel data for text detoxification. Using the recent technique of activation patching, we generate a pseudo-parallel detoxification dataset based on ParaDetox. The detoxification model trained on our generated data shows comparable performance to the original dataset in automatic detoxification evaluation metrics and superior quality in manual evaluation and side-by-side comparisons."}
{"Title": "Efficient Active Learning with Adapters", "Abstract": "One of the main obstacles for deploying Active Learning (AL) in practical NLP tasks is high computational cost of modern deep learning models. This issue can be partially mitigated by applying lightweight models as an acquisition model, but it can lead to the acquisition-successor mismatch (ASM) problem. Previous works show that the ASM problem can be partially alleviated by using distilled versions of a successor models as acquisition ones. However, distilled versions of pretrained models are not always available. Also, the exact pipeline of model distillation that does not lead to the ASM problem is not clear. To address these issues, we propose to use adapters as an alternative to full fine-tuning for acquisition model training. Since adapters are lightweight, this approach reduces the training cost of the model. We provide empirical evidence that it does not cause the ASM problem and can help to deploy active learning in practical NLP tasks."}
{"Title": "How You Prompt Matters! Even Task-Oriented Constraints in Instructions Affect LLM-Generated Text Detection", "Abstract": "To combat the misuse of Large Language Models (LLMs), many recent studies have presented LLM-generated-text detectors with promising performance. When users instruct LLMs to generate texts, the instruction can include different constraints depending on the user{'}s need. However, most recent studies do not cover such diverse instruction patterns when creating datasets for LLM detection. In this paper, we reveal that even task-oriented constraints {---} constraints that would naturally be included in an instruction and are not related to detection-evasion {---} cause existing powerful detectors to have a large variance in detection performance. We focus on student essay writing as a realistic domain and manually create task-oriented constraints based on several factors for essay quality. Our experiments show that the standard deviation (SD) of current detector performance on texts generated by an instruction with such a constraint is significantly larger (up to an SD of 14.4 F1-score) than that by generating texts multiple times or paraphrasing the instruction. We also observe an overall trend where the constraints can make LLM detection more challenging than without them. Finally, our analysis indicates that the high instruction-following ability of LLMs fosters the large impact of such constraints on detection performance."}
{"Title": "\u201cSeeing the Big through the Small\u201d: Can LLMs Approximate Human Judgment Distributions on NLI from a Few Explanations?", "Abstract": "Human label variation (HLV) is a valuable source of information that arises when multiple human annotators provide different labels for valid reasons. In Natural Language Inference (NLI) earlier approaches to capturing HLV involve either collecting annotations from many crowd workers to represent human judgment distribution (HJD) or use expert linguists to provide detailed explanations for their chosen labels. While the former method provides denser HJD information, obtaining it is resource-intensive. In contrast, the latter offers richer textual information but it is challenging to scale up to many human judges. Besides, large language models (LLMs) are increasingly used as evaluators ({``}LLM judges{''}) but with mixed results, and few works aim to study HJDs. This study proposes to exploit LLMs to approximate HJDs using a small number of expert labels and explanations. Our experiments show that a few explanations significantly improve LLMs{'} ability to approximate HJDs with and without explicit labels, thereby providing a solution to scale up annotations for HJD. However, fine-tuning smaller soft-label aware models with the LLM-generated model judgment distributions (MJDs) presents partially inconsistent results: while similar in distance, their resulting fine-tuned models and visualized distributions differ substantially. We show the importance of complementing instance-level distance measures with a global-level shape metric and visualization to more effectively evaluate MJDs against human judgment distributions."}
{"Title": "Language Models in Dialogue: Conversational Maxims for Human-AI Interactions", "Abstract": "Modern language models, while sophisticated, exhibit some inherent shortcomings, particularly in conversational settings. We claim that many of the observed shortcomings can be attributed to violation of one or more conversational principles. By drawing upon extensive research from both the social science and AI communities, we propose a set of maxims {--} quantity, quality, relevance, manner, benevolence, and transparency {--} for describing effective human-AI conversation. We first justify the applicability of the first four maxims (from Grice) in the context of human-AI interactions. We then argue that two new maxims, benevolence (concerning the generation of, and engagement with, harmful content) and transparency (concerning recognition of one{'}s knowledge boundaries, operational constraints, and intents), are necessary for addressing behavior unique to modern human-AI interactions. We evaluate the degree to which various language models are able to understand these maxims and find that models possess an internal prioritization of principles that can significantly impact accurate interpretability of the maxims."}
{"Title": "LLM-Based Multi-Hop Question Answering with Knowledge Graph Integration in Evolving Environments", "Abstract": "The important challenge of keeping knowledge in Large Language Models (LLMs) up-to-date has led to the development of various methods for incorporating new facts. However, existing methods for such knowledge editing still face difficulties with multi-hop questions that require accurate fact identification and sequential logical reasoning, particularly among numerous fact updates. To tackle these challenges, this paper introduces Graph Memory-based Editing for Large Language Models (GMeLLo), a straightforward and effective method that merges the explicit knowledge representation of Knowledge Graphs (KGs) with the linguistic flexibility of LLMs. Beyond merely leveraging LLMs for question answering, GMeLLo employs these models to convert free-form language into structured queries and fact triples, facilitating seamless interaction with KGs for rapid updates and precise multi-hop reasoning. Our results show that GMeLLo significantly surpasses current state-of-the-art (SOTA) knowledge editing methods in the multi-hop question answering benchmark, MQuAKE, especially in scenarios with extensive knowledge edits."}
{"Title": "Self-supervised Preference Optimization: Enhance Your Language Model with Preference Degree Awareness", "Abstract": "Recently, there has been significant interest in replacing the reward model in Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) methods for Large Language Models (LLMs), such as Direct Preference Optimization (DPO) and its variants. These approaches commonly use a binary cross-entropy mechanism on pairwise samples, i.e., minimizing and maximizing the loss based on preferred or dis-preferred responses, respectively. However, while this training strategy omits the reward model, it also overlooks the varying preference degrees within different responses. We hypothesize that this is a key factor hindering LLMs from sufficiently understanding human preferences. To address this problem, we propose a novel Self-supervised Preference Optimization (SPO) framework, which constructs a self-supervised preference degree loss combined with the alignment loss, thereby helping LLMs improve their ability to understand the degree of preference. Extensive experiments are conducted on two widely used datasets of different tasks. The results demonstrate that SPO can be seamlessly integrated with existing preference optimization methods and significantly boost their performance to achieve state-of-the-art performance. We also conduct detailed analyses to offer comprehensive insights into SPO, which verifies its effectiveness. The code is available at https://github.com/lijian16/SPO."}
{"Title": "Mitigating Hallucination in Fictional Character Role-Play", "Abstract": "Role-playing has wide-ranging applications in customer support, embodied agents, and computational social science. The influence of parametric world knowledge of large language models (LLMs) often causes role-playing characters to act out of character and to hallucinate about things outside the scope of their knowledge. In this work, we focus on the evaluation and mitigation of hallucination in fictional character role-play. We introduce a dataset with over 2,000 characters and 72,000 interviews, including 18,000 adversarial questions. We propose RoleFact, a role-playing method that mitigates hallucination by modulating the influence of parametric knowledge using a pre-calibrated confidence threshold. Experiments show that the proposed method improves the factual precision of generated responses by 18{\\%} for adversarial questions with a 44{\\%} reduction in temporal hallucination for time-sensitive interviews. The code and the dataset are available at \\url{https://github.com/NafisSadeq/rolefact.git}."}
{"Title": "I'm sure you're a real scholar yourself: Exploring Ironic Content Generation by Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Generating ironic content is challenging: it requires a nuanced understanding of context and implicit references and balancing seriousness and playfulness. Moreover, irony is highly subjective and can depend on various factors, such as social, cultural, or generational aspects. This paper explores whether Large Language Models (LLMs) can learn to generate ironic responses to social media posts. To do so, we fine-tune two models to generate ironic and non-ironic content and deeply analyze their outputs{'} linguistic characteristics, their connection to the original post, and their similarity to the human-written replies. We also conduct a large-scale human evaluation of the outputs. Additionally, we investigate whether LLMs can learn a form of irony tied to a generational perspective, with mixed results."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Temporal Sensitivity and Reasoning for Time-Sensitive Question Answering", "Abstract": "Time-Sensitive Question Answering (TSQA) demands the effective utilization of specific temporal contexts, encompassing multiple time-evolving facts, to address time-sensitive questions. This necessitates not only the parsing of temporal information within questions but also the identification and understanding of time-evolving facts to generate accurate answers. However, current large language models still have limited sensitivity to temporal information and their inadequate temporal reasoning capabilities. In this paper, we propose a novel framework that enhances temporal awareness and reasoning through Temporal Information-Aware Embedding and Granular Contrastive Reinforcement Learning. Experimental results on four TSQA datasets demonstrate that our framework significantly outperforms existing LLMs in TSQA tasks, marking a step forward in bridging the performance gap between machine and human temporal understanding and reasoning."}
{"Title": "Minimal Yet Big Impact: How AI Agent Back-channeling Enhances Conversational Engagement through Conversation Persistence and Context Richness", "Abstract": "The increasing use of AI agents in conversational services, such as counseling, highlights the importance of back-channeling (BC) as an active listening strategy to enhance conversational engagement. BC improves conversational engagement by providing timely acknowledgments and encouraging the speaker to talk. This study investigates the effect of BC provided by an AI agent on conversational engagement, offering insights for future AI conversational service design. We conducted an experiment with 55 participants, divided into Todak{\\_}BC and Todak{\\_}NoBC groups based on the presence or absence of the BC feature in Todak, a conversational agent. Each participant engaged in nine sessions with predetermined subjects and questions. We collected and analyzed approximately 6 hours and 30 minutes of conversation logs to evaluate conversational engagement using both quantitative (conversation persistence, including conversation duration and number of utterances) and qualitative metrics (context richness, including self-disclosure and topic diversity). The findings reveal significantly higher conversational engagement in the Todak{\\_}BC group compared to the Todak{\\_}NoBC group across all metrics (p{\\textless}0.05). Additionally, the impact of BC varies across sessions, suggesting that conversation characteristics such as question type and topic sensitivity can influence BC effectiveness."}
{"Title": "Large Language Models for Propaganda Span Annotation", "Abstract": "The use of propagandistic techniques in online content has increased in recent years aiming to manipulate online audiences. Fine-grained propaganda detection and extraction of textual spans where propaganda techniques are used, are essential for more informed content consumption. Automatic systems targeting the task over lower resourced languages are limited, usually obstructed by lack of large scale training datasets. Our study investigates whether Large Language Models (LLMs), such as GPT-4, can effectively extract propagandistic spans. We further study the potential of employing the model to collect more cost-effective annotations. Finally, we examine the effectiveness of labels provided by GPT-4 in training smaller language models for the task. The experiments are performed over a large-scale in-house manually annotated dataset. The results suggest that providing more annotation context to GPT-4 within prompts improves its performance compared to human annotators. Moreover, when serving as an expert annotator (consolidator), the model provides labels that have higher agreement with expert annotators, and lead to specialized models that achieve state-of-the-art over an unseen Arabic testing set. Finally, our work is the first to show the potential of utilizing LLMs to develop annotated datasets for propagandistic spans detection task prompting it with annotations from human annotators with limited expertise. All scripts and annotations will be shared with the community."}
{"Title": "Style-Compress: An LLM-Based Prompt Compression Framework Considering Task-Specific Styles", "Abstract": "Prompt compression condenses contexts while maintaining their informativeness for different usage scenarios. It not only shortens the inference time and reduces computational costs during the usage of large language models, but also lowers expenses when using closed-source models. In a preliminary study, we discover that when instructing language models to compress prompts, different compression styles (e.g., extractive or abstractive) impact performance of compressed prompts on downstream tasks. Building on this insight, we propose Style-Compress, a lightweight framework that adapts a smaller language model to compress prompts for a larger model on a new task without additional training. Our approach iteratively generates and selects effective compressed prompts as task-specific demonstrations through style variation and in-context learning, enabling smaller models to act as efficient compressors with task-specific examples. Style-Compress outperforms two baseline compression models in four tasks: original prompt reconstruction, text summarization, multi-hop QA, and CoT reasoning. In addition, with only 10 samples and 100 queries for adaptation, prompts compressed by Style-Compress achieve performance on par with or better than original prompts at a compression ratio of 0.25 or 0.5."}
{"Title": "POSIX: A Prompt Sensitivity Index For Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Despite their remarkable capabilities, Large Language Models (LLMs) are found to be surprisingly sensitive to minor variations in prompts, often generating significantly divergent outputs in response to minor variations in the prompts, such as spelling errors, alteration of wording or the prompt template. However, while assessing the quality of an LLM, the focus often tends to be solely on its performance on downstream tasks, while very little to no attention is paid to prompt sensitivity. To fill this gap, we propose POSIX {--} a novel PrOmpt Sensitivity IndeX as a reliable measure of prompt sensitivity, thereby offering a more comprehensive evaluation of LLM performance. The key idea behind POSIX is to capture the relative change in loglikelihood of a given response upon replacing the corresponding prompt with a different intent-preserving prompt. We provide thorough empirical evidence demonstrating the efficacy of POSIX in capturing prompt sensitivity and subsequently use it to measure and thereby compare prompt sensitivity of various open source LLMs. We find that merely increasing the parameter count or instruction tuning does not necessarily reduce prompt sensitivity whereas adding some few-shot exemplars, even just one, almost always leads to significant decrease in prompt sensitivity. We also find that alterations to prompt template lead to the highest sensitivity in the case of MCQ type tasks, whereas paraphrasing results in the highest sensitivity in open-ended generation tasks. The code for reproducing our results is open-sourced at https://github.com/kowndinya-renduchintala/POSIX."}
{"Title": "Capturing Minds, Not Just Words: Enhancing Role-Playing Language Models with Personality-Indicative Data", "Abstract": "Role-playing agents (RPA) have been a popular application area for large language models (LLMs), attracting significant interest from both industry and academia. While existing RPAs well portray the characters{'} knowledge and tones, they face challenges in capturing their minds, especially for small role-playing language models (RPLMs). In this paper, we propose to enhance RPLMs via personality-indicative data. Specifically, we leverage questions from psychological scales and distill advanced RPAs to generate dialogues that grasp the minds of characters. Experimental results validate that RPLMs trained with our dataset exhibit advanced role-playing capabilities for both general and personality-related evaluations."}
{"Title": "Local and Global Decoding in Text Generation", "Abstract": "Text generation, a component in applications such as dialogue systems, relies heavily on decoding algorithms that sample strings from a language model distribution. Traditional methods like top-$k$ and top-$\\pi$ decoding locally normalise the model{'}s output, which can significantly distort the original distribution. In this paper, we investigate the effects of such distortions by introducing globally-normalised versions of these decoding methods. Further, we propose an independent Metropolis-Hastings (IMH) algorithm to approximate sampling from these globally-normalised distributions without explicitly computing them. Our empirical analyses compare the performance of local and global decoding across two algorithms (top-$k$ and top-$\\pi$) with various hyperparameters, using the Pythia language models. Results show that in most configuration, global decoding performs worse than the local decoding versions of the same algorithms, despite preserving the distribution{'}s integrity. Our results thus suggest that distortion might be an important feature of local decoding algorithms."}
{"Title": "LEGOBench: Scientific Leaderboard Generation Benchmark", "Abstract": "The ever-increasing volume of paper submissions makes it difficult to stay informed about the latest state-of-the-art research. To address this challenge, we introduce LEGOBench, a benchmark for evaluating systems that generate scientific leaderboards. LEGOBench is curated from 22 years of preprint submission data on arXiv and more than 11k machine learning leaderboards on the PapersWithCode portal. We present a language model-based and four graph-based leaderboard generation task configuration. We evaluate popular encoder-only scientific language models as well as decoder-only large language models across these task configurations. State-of-the-art models showcase significant performance gaps in automatic leaderboard generation on LEGOBench. The code is available on GitHub and the dataset is hosted on OSF."}
{"Title": "H-LegalKI: A Hierarchical Legal Knowledge Integration Framework for Legal Community Question Answering", "Abstract": "Legal question answering (LQA) aims to bridge the gap between the limited availability of legal professionals and the high demand for legal assistance. Traditional LQA approaches typically either select the optimal answers from an answer set or extract answers from law texts. However, they often struggle to provide relevant answers to complex, real-world questions due to the rigidity of predetermined answers. Although recent advancements in legal large language models have shown some potential in enhancing answer relevance, they fail to address the multiple user-specific circumstances, i.e., factual details in questions. To address these issues, we (1) construct the first publicly available legal community question-answering (LegalCQA) dataset; and (2) propose a Hierarchical Legal Knowledge Integration (H-LegalKI) framework. LegalCQA is collected from two widely used legal forums for developing user-centered LQA models. For H-LegalKI, we design a legal knowledge retriever that gathers comprehensive legal knowledge based on both entire questions and individual sentences. And an answer generation model is designed to understand question- and sentence-level factual details and integrate corresponding legal knowledge in a hierarchical way. Additionally, we design a de-redundancy module to remove redundant legal knowledge. Experiments on LegalCQA demonstrate the superiority of our framework over competitive baselines."}
{"Title": "Identifying Factual Inconsistencies in Summaries: Grounding LLM Inference via Task Taxonomy", "Abstract": "Factual inconsistencies pose a significant hurdle for the faithful summarization by generative models. While a major direction to enhance inconsistency detection is to derive stronger Natural Language Inference (NLI) models, we propose an orthogonal aspect that underscores the importance of incorporating task-specific taxonomy into the inference. To this end, we consolidate key error types of inconsistent facts in summaries, and incorporate them to facilitate both the zero-shot and supervised paradigms of LLMs. Extensive experiments on ten datasets of five distinct domains suggest that, zero-shot LLM inference could benefit from the explicit solution space depicted by the error type taxonomy, and achieves state-of-the-art performance overall, surpassing specialized non-LLM baselines, as well as recent LLM baselines. We further distill models that fuse the taxonomy into parameters through our designed prompt completions and supervised training strategies, efficiently substituting state-of-the-art zero-shot inference with much larger LLMs."}
{"Title": "Long Sequence Modeling with Attention Tensorization: From Sequence to Tensor Learning", "Abstract": "As the demand for processing extended textual data grows, the ability to handle long-range dependencies and maintain computational efficiency is more critical than ever. One of the key issues for long-sequence modeling using attention-based model is the mismatch between the limited-range modeling power of full attention and the long-range token dependency in the input sequence. In this work, we propose to scale up the attention receptive field by tensorizing long input sequences into compact tensor representations followed by attention on each transformed dimension. The resulting Tensorized Attention can be adopted as efficient transformer backbones to extend input context length with improved memory and time efficiency. We show that the proposed attention tensorization encodes token dependencies as a multi-hop attention process, and is equivalent to Kronecker decomposition of full attention. Extensive experiments show that tensorized attention can be used to adapt pretrained LLMs with improved efficiency. Notably, using customized Triton kernels, tensorization enables Llama-8B training under 32,768 context length and can steadily extrapolate to 128k length during inference with 11 times speedup (compared to full attention with FlashAttention-2)."}
{"Title": "BanglaTLit: A Benchmark Dataset for Back-Transliteration of Romanized Bangla", "Abstract": "Low-resource languages like Bangla are severely limited by the lack of datasets. Romanized Bangla texts are ubiquitous on the internet, offering a rich source of data for Bangla NLP tasks and extending the available data sources. However, due to the informal nature of romanized text, they often lack the structure and consistency needed to provide insights. We address these challenges by proposing: (1) BanglaTLit, the large-scale Bangla transliteration dataset consisting of 42.7k samples, (2) BanglaTLit-PT, a pre-training corpus on romanized Bangla with 245.7k samples, (3) encoders further-pretrained on BanglaTLit-PT achieving state-of-the-art performance in several romanized Bangla classification tasks, and (4) multiple back-transliteration baseline methods, including a novel encoder-decoder architecture using further pre-trained encoders. Our results show the potential of automated Bangla back-transliteration in utilizing the untapped sources of romanized Bangla to enrich this language. The code and datasets are publicly available: https://github.com/farhanishmam/BanglaTLit."}
{"Title": "Finding the Optimal Byte-Pair Encoding Merge Operations for Neural Machine Translation in a Low-Resource Setting", "Abstract": "This paper investigates the impact of different Byte Pair Encoding (BPE) configurations, specifically, merge operations on neural machine translation (NMT) performance for the Filipino-Cebuano language pair across various text domains. Results demonstrate that smaller BPE configurations, notably 2k, 5k, and 8k consistently yield higher BLEU scores, indicating improved translation quality through finer tokenization granularity. Conversely, larger BPE configurations and the absence of BPE result in lower BLEU scores, suggesting a decline in translation quality due to coarser tokenization. Additionally, these findings help us understand how the size of the model and how finely we break down words affect the quality of translations. This knowledge will be useful for improving translation systems, especially for languages that don{'}t have many parallel texts available for training."}
{"Title": "Can Machines Resonate with Humans? Evaluating the Emotional and Empathic Comprehension of LMs", "Abstract": "Empathy plays a pivotal role in fostering prosocial behavior, often triggered by the sharing of personal experiences through narratives. However, modeling empathy using NLP approaches remains challenging due to its deep interconnection with human interaction dynamics. Previous approaches, which involve fine-tuning language models (LMs) on human-annotated empathic datasets, have had limited success. In our pursuit of improving empathy understanding in LMs, we propose several strategies, including contrastive learning with masked LMs and supervised fine-tuning with large language models. While these methods show improvements over previous methods, the overall results remain unsatisfactory. To better understand this trend, we performed an analysis which reveals a low agreement among annotators. This lack of consensus hinders training and highlights the subjective nature of the task. We also explore the cultural impact on annotations. To study this, we meticulously collected story pairs in Urdu language and find that subjectivity in interpreting empathy among annotators appears to be independent of cultural background. Our systematic exploration of LMs{'} understanding of empathy reveals substantial opportunities for further investigation in both task formulation and modeling."}
{"Title": "EU DisinfoTest: a Benchmark for Evaluating Language Models' Ability to Detect Disinformation Narratives", "Abstract": "As narratives shape public opinion and influence societal actions, distinguishing between truthful and misleading narratives has become a significant challenge. To address this, we introduce the EU DisinfoTest, a novel benchmark designed to evaluate the efficacy of Language Models in identifying disinformation narratives. Developed through a Human-in-the-Loop methodology and grounded in research from EU DisinfoLab, the EU DisinfoTest comprises more than 1,300 narratives. Our benchmark includes persuasive elements under Logos, Pathos, and Ethos rhetorical dimensions. We assessed state-of-the-art LLMs, including the newly released GPT-4o, on their capability to perform zero-shot classification of disinformation narratives versus credible narratives. Our findings reveal that LLMs tend to regard narratives with authoritative appeals as trustworthy, while those with emotional appeals are frequently incorrectly classified as disinformative. These findings highlight the challenges LLMs face in nuanced content interpretation and suggest the need for tailored adjustments in LLM training to better handle diverse narrative structures."}
{"Title": "Adaptive BPE Tokenization for Enhanced Vocabulary Adaptation in Finetuning Pretrained Language Models", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "From Reading to Compressing: Exploring the Multi-document Reader for Prompt Compression", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have achieved significant performance gains using advanced prompting techniques over various tasks. However, the increasing length of prompts leads to high computational costs and often obscures crucial information. Prompt compression has been proposed to alleviate these issues, but it faces challenges in (i) capturing the global context and (ii) training the compressor effectively. To tackle these challenges, we introduce a novel prompt compression method, namely Reading To Compressing (R2C), utilizing the Fusion-in-Decoder (FiD) architecture to identify the important information in the prompt. Specifically, the cross-attention scores of the FiD are used to discern essential chunks and sentences from the prompt. R2C effectively captures the global context without compromising semantic consistency while detouring the necessity of pseudo-labels for training the compressor. Empirical results show that R2C retains key contexts, enhancing the LLM performance by 6{\\%} in out-of-domain evaluations while reducing the prompt length by 80{\\%}."}
{"Title": "Knowledge-Guided Dynamic Modality Attention Fusion Framework for Multimodal Sentiment Analysis", "Abstract": "Multimodal Sentiment Analysis (MSA) utilizes multimodal data to infer the users{'} sentiment. Previous methods focus on equally treating the contribution of each modality or statically using text as the dominant modality to conduct interaction, which neglects the situation where each modality may become dominant. In this paper, we propose a Knowledge-Guided Dynamic Modality Attention Fusion Framework (KuDA) for multimodal sentiment analysis. KuDA uses sentiment knowledge to guide the model dynamically selecting the dominant modality and adjusting the contributions of each modality. In addition, with the obtained multimodal representation, the model can further highlight the contribution of dominant modality through the correlation evaluation loss. Extensive experiments on four MSA benchmark datasets indicate that KuDA achieves state-of-the-art performance and is able to adapt to different scenarios of dominant modality."}
{"Title": "LexMatcher: Dictionary-centric Data Curation for LLM-based Machine Translation", "Abstract": "The fine-tuning of open-source large language models (LLMs) for machine translation has recently received considerable attention, marking a shift towards data-centric research from traditional neural machine translation. However, the area of data collection for instruction fine-tuning in machine translation remains relatively underexplored. In this paper, we present LexMatcher, a simple yet effective method for data curation,the design of which is driven by the coverage of senses found in bilingual dictionaries. The construction process comprises data retrieval from an existing corpus and data augmentation that supplements the infrequent senses of polysemous words. Utilizing LLaMA2 as our base model, our method outperforms the established baselines on the WMT2022 test sets and also exhibits remarkable performance in tasks related to word sense disambiguation and specialized terminology translation. Our method is also applicable to other pre-trained models, and complements the method of continual pre-training using monolingual data, demonstrating the effectiveness of LexMatcher in enhancing LLM-based machine translation."}
{"Title": "SARCAT: Generative Span-Act Guided Response Generation using Copy-enhanced Target Augmentation", "Abstract": "In this paper, we present a novel extension to improve the document grounded response generation, by proposing the Generative Span Act Guided Response Generation using Copy enhanced Target Augmentation (SARCAT) that consists of two major components as follows: 1) Copy-enhanced target-side input augmentation is an extended data augmentation to deal with the exposure bias problem by additionally incorporating the copy mechanism on top of the target-side augmentation (Xie et al., 2021). 2) Span-act guided response generation, which first predicts grounding spans and dialogue acts before generating a response. Experiment results on validation set in MultiDoc2Dial show that the proposed SARSAT leads to improvement over strong baselines on both seen and unseen settings and achieves the start-of the-art performance, even with the base reader using the pretrained T5-base model."}
{"Title": "Does Context Help Mitigate Gender Bias in Neural Machine Translation?", "Abstract": "Neural Machine Translation models tend to perpetuate gender bias present in their training data distribution. Context-aware models have been previously suggested as a means to mitigate this type of bias. In this work, we examine this claim by analysing in detail the translation of stereotypical professions in English to German, and translation with non-informative context in Basque to Spanish. Our results show that, although context-aware models can significantly enhance translation accuracy for feminine terms, they can still maintain or even amplify gender bias. These results highlight the need for more fine-grained approaches to bias mitigation in Neural Machine Translation."}
{"Title": "A Critical Look at Meta-evaluating Summarisation Evaluation Metrics", "Abstract": "Effective summarisation evaluation metrics enable researchers and practitioners to compare different summarisation systems efficiently. Estimating the effectiveness of an automatic evaluation metric, termed meta-evaluation, is a critically important research question. In this position paper, we review recent meta-evaluation practices for summarisation evaluation metrics and find that (1) evaluation metrics are primarily meta-evaluated on datasets consisting of examples from news summarisation datasets, and (2) there has been a noticeable shift in research focus towards evaluating the faithfulness of generated summaries. We argue that the time is ripe to build more diverse benchmarks that enable the development of more robust evaluation metrics and analyze the generalization ability of existing evaluation metrics. In addition, we call for research focusing on user-centric quality dimensions that consider the generated summary{'}s communicative goal and the role of summarisation in the workflow."}
{"Title": "LLMs for Generating and Evaluating Counterfactuals: A Comprehensive Study", "Abstract": "As NLP models become more complex, understanding their decisions becomes more crucial. Counterfactuals (CFs), where minimal changes to inputs flip a model{'}s prediction, offer a way to explain these models. While Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable performance in NLP tasks, their efficacy in generating high-quality CFs remains uncertain. This work fills this gap by investigating how well LLMs generate CFs for three tasks. We conduct a comprehensive comparison of several common LLMs, and evaluate their CFs, assessing both intrinsic metrics, and the impact of these CFs on data augmentation. Moreover, we analyze differences between human and LLM-generated CFs, providing insights for future research directions. Our results show that LLMs generate fluent CFs, but struggle to keep the induced changes minimal. Generating CFs for Sentiment Analysis (SA) is less challenging than NLI and Hate Speech (HS) where LLMs show weaknesses in generating CFs that flip the original label. This also reflects on the data augmentation performance, where we observe a large gap between augmenting with human and LLM CFs. Furthermore, we evaluate LLMs{'} ability to assess CFs in a mislabelled data setting, and show that they have a strong bias towards agreeing with the provided labels. GPT4 is more robust against this bias, but it shows strong preference to its own generations. Our analysis suggests that safety training is causing GPT4 to prefer its generations, since these generations do not contain harmful content. Our findings reveal several limitations and point to potential future work directions."}
{"Title": "Unlocking Black-Box Prompt Tuning Efficiency via Zeroth-Order Optimization", "Abstract": "Prompt optimization emerges as an important technique for adapting Large Language Models (LLMs) to specific tasks. Unfortunately, LLM proprietors often limit access to models{'} internal weights, confining users to inference API services. This restriction poses a significant challenge for prompt optimization, as conventional optimization-based algorithms rely heavily on gradient information, which is unavailable via inference APIs. Addressing this challenge, this paper presents the Zeroth-Order Tuning (ZOT) approach, which enables efficient prompt tuning solely via inference APIs. ZOT adopts the zeroth-order optimization framework, utilizing finite differences to approximate gradient information. We further incorporate ZOT with gradient clipping and momentum techniques to enhance the tuning effectiveness. Experimental results show that ZOT outperforms existing black-box prompt tuning methods in terms of both task-specific performance and convergence speed. Furthermore, we provide a theoretical explanation for the unexpectedly strong performance of zeroth-order methods on LLM prompt tuning. By introducing the concept of effective dimension, we establish a strong connection between the inherently low effective dimension of prompt spaces and the superior convergence speed of zeroth-order methods. Our code is available at https://github.com/ZhanHeshen/ZOT."}
{"Title": "Unveiling Narrative Reasoning Limits of Large Language Models with Trope in Movie Synopses", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) equipped with chain-of-thoughts (CoT) prompting have shown significant multi-step reasoning capabilities in factual content like mathematics, commonsense, and logic. However, their performance in narrative reasoning, which demands greater abstraction capabilities, remains unexplored. This study utilizes tropes in movie synopses to assess the abstract reasoning abilities of state-of-the-art LLMs and uncovers their low performance. We introduce a trope-wise querying approach to address these challenges and boost the F1 score by 11.8 points. Moreover, while prior studies suggest that CoT enhances multi-step reasoning, this study shows CoT can cause hallucinations in narrative content, reducing GPT-4{'}s performance. We also introduce an Adversarial Injection method to embed trope-related text tokens into movie synopses without explicit tropes, revealing CoT{'}s heightened sensitivity to such injections. Our comprehensive analysis provides insights for future research directions."}
{"Title": "Unveiling the Flaws: Exploring Imperfections in Synthetic Data and Mitigation Strategies for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Synthetic data has been proposed as a solution to address the issue of high-quality data scarcity in the training of large language models (LLMs). Studies have shown that synthetic data can effectively improve the performance of LLMs on downstream benchmarks. However, despite its potential benefits, our analysis suggests that there may be inherent flaws in synthetic data. The uniform format of synthetic data can lead to pattern overfitting and cause significant shifts in the output distribution, thereby reducing the model{'}s instruction-following capabilities. Our work delves into these specific flaws associated with question-answer (Q-A) pairs, a prevalent type of synthetic data, and presents a method based on unlearning techniques to mitigate these flaws. The empirical results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, which can reverse the instruction-following issues caused by pattern overfitting without compromising performance on benchmarks at relatively low cost. Our work has yielded key insights into the effective use of synthetic data, aiming to promote more robust and efficient LLM training."}
{"Title": "CED: Comparing Embedding Differences for Detecting Out-of-Distribution and Hallucinated Text", "Abstract": "Detecting out-of-distribution (OOD) samples is crucial for ensuring the safety and robustness of models deployed in real-world scenarios. While most studies on OOD detection focus on fine-tuned models trained on in-distribution (ID) data, detecting OOD in pre-trained models is also important due to computational limitations and the widespread use of open-source pre-trained models. However, in the same domain shift setting, the OOD detection performance of pre-trained models is insufficient because both ID and OOD samples originate from the same domain, leading to a high overlap in their embeddings. To address this issue, we introduce a new method called CED, a training-free OOD detection technique designed to enhance the distinction between ID and OOD datasets. We theoretically validate that specific auxiliary and oracle samples that satisfy certain conditions improve this distinction. Motivated by our theoretical analysis, CED enhances the differentiation by utilizing these specially designed auxiliary and oracle samples. As a result, CED significantly improves the ability of pre-trained models to distinguish between ID and OOD samples in text classification and hallucination detection tasks. Furthermore, we verify that CED is a plug-and-play method compatible with various backbone networks, such as RoBERTa, Llama, and OpenAI Embedding."}
{"Title": "CHAmbi: A New Benchmark on Chinese Ambiguity Challenges for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Ambiguity is an inherent feature of language, whose management is crucial for effective communication and collaboration. This is particularly true for Chinese, a language with extensive lexical-morphemic ambiguity. Despite the wide use of large language models (LLMs) in numerous domains and their growing proficiency in Chinese, there is a notable lack of datasets to thoroughly evaluate LLMs{'} ability to handle ambiguity in Chinese. To bridge this gap, we introduce the CHAmbi dataset, a specialized Chinese multi-label disambiguation dataset formatted in Natural Language Inference. It comprises 4,991 pairs of premises and hypotheses, including 824 examples featuring a wide range of ambiguities. In addition to the dataset, we develop a series of tests and conduct an extensive evaluation of pre-trained LLMs{'} proficiency in identifying and resolving ambiguity in the Chinese language. Our findings reveal that GPT-4 consistently delivers commendable performance across various evaluative measures, albeit with limitations in robustness. The performances of other LLMs, however, demonstrate variability in handling ambiguity-related tasks, underscoring the complexity of such tasks in the context of Chinese. The overall results highlight the challenge of ambiguity handling for current LLMs and underscore the imperative need for further enhancement in LLM capabilities for effective ambiguity resolution in the Chinese language."}
{"Title": "Analyzing Context Contributions in LLM-based Machine Translation", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have achieved state-of-the-art performance in machine translation (MT) and demonstrated the ability to leverage in-context learning through few-shot examples. However, the mechanisms by which LLMs use different parts of the input context remain largely unexplored. In this work, we provide a comprehensive analysis of context utilization in MT, studying how LLMs use various context parts, such as few-shot examples and the source text, when generating translations. We highlight several key findings: (1) the source part of few-shot examples appears to contribute more than its corresponding targets, irrespective of translation direction; (2) finetuning LLMs with parallel data alters the contribution patterns of different context parts; and (3) there is a positional bias where earlier few-shot examples have higher contributions to the translated sequence. Finally, we demonstrate that inspecting anomalous context contributions can potentially uncover pathological translations, such as hallucinations. Our findings shed light on the internal workings of LLM-based MT which go beyond those known for standard encoder-decoder MT models."}
{"Title": "ARTS: Assessing Readability & Text Simplicity", "Abstract": "Automatic text simplification aims to reduce a text{'}s complexity. Its evaluation should quantify how easy it is to understand a text. Datasets with simplicity labels on text level are a prerequisite for developing such evaluation approaches. However, current publicly available datasets do not align with this, as they mainly treat text simplification as a relational concept ({``}How much simpler has this text gotten compared to the original version?{''}) or assign discrete readability levels.This work alleviates the problem of Assessing Readability {\\&} Text Simplicity. We present ARTS, a method for language-independent construction of datasets for simplicity assessment. We propose using pairwise comparisons of texts in conjunction with an Elo algorithm to produce a simplicity ranking and simplicity scores. Additionally, we provide a high-quality human-labeled and three GPT-labeled simplicity datasets. Our results show a high correlation between human and LLM-based labels, allowing for an effective and cost-efficient way to construct large synthetic datasets."}
{"Title": "AXCEL: Automated eXplainable Consistency Evaluation using LLMs", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) are widely used in both industry and academia for various tasks, yet evaluating the consistency of generated text responses continues to be a challenge. Traditional metrics like ROUGE and BLEU show a weak correlation with human judgment. More sophisticated metrics using Natural Language Inference (NLI) have shown improved correlations but are complex to implement, require domain-specific training due to poor cross-domain generalization, and lack explainability. More recently, prompt-based metrics using LLMs as evaluators have emerged; while they are easier to implement, they still lack explainability and depend on task-specific prompts, which limits their generalizability. This work introduces Automated eXplainable Consistency Evaluation using LLMs (AXCEL), a prompt-based consistency metric which offers explanations for the consistency scores by providing detailed reasoning and pinpointing inconsistent text spans. AXCEL is also a generalizable metric which can be adopted to multiple tasks without changing the prompt. AXCEL outperforms both non-prompt and prompt-based state-of-the-art (SOTA) metrics in detecting inconsistencies across summarization by 8.7{\\%}, free text generation by 6.2{\\%}, and data-to-text conversion tasks by 29.4{\\%}. We also evaluate the influence of underlying LLMs on prompt based metric performance and recalibrate the SOTA prompt-based metrics with the latest LLMs for fair comparison. Further, we show that AXCEL demonstrates strong performance using open source LLMs."}
{"Title": "Prospector: Improving LLM Agents with Self-Asking and Trajectory Ranking", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have shown the ability to solve complex decision-making tasks beyond natural language processing tasks. LLM agents based on few-shot in-context learning (ICL) achieve surprisingly high performance without training. Despite their simplicity and generalizability, ICL-based agents are limited in their ability to incorporate feedback from an environment. In this paper, we introduce Prospector, an LLM agent that consists of two complementary LLMs, an Actor and a Critic. To elicit better instruction-aligned actions from the LLM agent, we propose AskAct prompting that performs an additional self-asking step such as goal and progress checking before generating an action. Furthermore, to implicitly incorporate the environment feedback, we propose Trajectory Ranking that orders generated trajectories by predicting the expected total reward. Prospector encourages the LLM Actor to generate diverse (creative) trajectories, and harnesses the LLM Critic to select the most rewarding trajectory. On representative decision-making benchmark environments such as ALFWorld and WebShop, we empirically demonstrate that Prospector can considerably increase the success rate of given tasks, while outperforming recent advancements such as ReAct and Reflexion."}
{"Title": "Characterizing Text Datasets with Psycholinguistic Features", "Abstract": "Fine-tuning pretrained language models on task-specific data is a common practice in Natural Language Processing (NLP) applications. However, the number of pretrained models available to choose from can be very large, and it remains unclear how to select the optimal model without spending considerable amounts of computational resources, especially for the text domain. To address this problem, we introduce PsyMatrix, a novel framework designed to efficiently characterize text datasets. PsyMatrix evaluates multiple dimensions of text and discourse, producing interpretable, low-dimensional embeddings. Our framework has been tested using a meta-dataset repository that includes the performance of 24 pretrained large language models fine-tuned across 146 classification datasets. Using the proposed embeddings, we successfully developed a meta-learning system capable of recommending the most effective pretrained models (optimal and near-optimal) for fine-tuning on new datasets."}
{"Title": "Talking the Talk Does Not Entail Walking the Walk: On the Limits of Large Language Models in Lexical Entailment Recognition", "Abstract": "Verbs form the backbone of language, providing the structure and meaning to sentences. Yet, their intricate semantic nuances pose a longstanding challenge. Understanding verb relations through the concept of lexical entailment is crucial for comprehending sentence meanings and grasping verb dynamics. This work investigates the capabilities of eight Large Language Models in recognizing lexical entailment relations among verbs through differently devised prompting strategies and zero-/few-shot settings over verb pairs from two lexical databases, namely WordNet and HyperLex. Our findings unveil that the models can tackle the lexical entailment recognition task with moderately good performance, although at varying degree of effectiveness and under different conditions. Also, utilizing few-shot prompting can enhance the models{'} performance. However, perfectly solving the task arises as an unmet challenge for all examined LLMs, which raises an emergence for further research developments on this topic."}
{"Title": "Making Reasoning Matter: Measuring and Improving Faithfulness of Chain-of-Thought Reasoning", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have been shown to perform better when asked to reason step-by-step before answering a question. However, it is unclear to what degree the model{'}s final answer is faithful to the stated reasoning steps. In this paper, we perform a causal mediation analysis on twelve LLMs to examine how intermediate reasoning steps generated by the LLM influence the final outcome and find that LLMs do not reliably use their intermediate reasoning steps when generating an answer. To address this issue, we introduce FRODO, a framework to tailor small-sized LMs to generate correct reasoning steps and robustly reason over these steps. FRODO consists of an inference module that learns to generate correct reasoning steps using an implicit causal reward function and a reasoning module that learns to faithfully reason over these intermediate inferences using a counterfactual and causal preference objective. Our experiments show that FRODO significantly outperforms four competitive baselines. Furthermore, FRODO improves the robustness and generalization ability of the reasoning LM, yielding higher performance on out-of-distribution test sets. Finally, we find that FRODO{'}s rationales are more faithful to its final answer predictions than standard supervised fine-tuning."}
{"Title": "Self-training Large Language Models through Knowledge Detection", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) often necessitate extensive labeled datasets and training compute to achieve impressive performance across downstream tasks. This paper explores a self-training paradigm, where the LLM autonomously curates its own labels and selectively trains on unknown data samples identified through a reference-free consistency method. Empirical evaluations demonstrate significant improvements in reducing hallucination in generation across multiple subjects. Furthermore, the selective training framework mitigates catastrophic forgetting in out-of-distribution benchmarks, addressing a critical limitation in training LLMs. Our findings suggest that such an approach can substantially reduce the dependency on large labeled datasets, paving the way for more scalable and cost-effective language model training."}
{"Title": "VE-KD: Vocabulary-Expansion Knowledge-Distillation for Training Smaller Domain-Specific Language Models", "Abstract": "We propose VE-KD, a novel method that balances knowledge distillation and vocabulary expansion with the aim of training efficient domain-specific language models. Compared with traditional pre-training approaches, VE-KD exhibits competitive performance in downstream tasks while reducing model size and using fewer computational resources. Additionally, VE-KD refrains from overfitting in domain adaptation. Our experiments with different biomedical domain tasks demonstrate that VE-KD performs well compared with models such as BioBERT (+1{\\%} at HoC) and PubMedBERT (+1{\\%} at PubMedQA), with about 96{\\%} less training time. Furthermore, it outperforms DistilBERT and Adapt-and-Distill, showing a significant improvement in document-level tasks. Investigation of vocabulary size and tolerance, which are hyperparameters of our method, provides insights for further model optimization. The fact that VE-KD consistently maintains its advantages, even when the corpus size is small, suggests that it is a practical approach for domain-specific language tasks and is transferrable to different domains for broader applications."}
{"Title": "Adaptive Contrastive Search: Uncertainty-Guided Decoding for Open-Ended Text Generation", "Abstract": "Despite the remarkable capabilities of large language models, generating high-quality text remains a challenging task. Numerous decoding strategies{---}such as beam search, sampling with temperature, top\u00e2\u0080\u0090$k$ sampling, nucleus (top\u00e2\u0080\u0090$p$) sampling, typical decoding, contrastive decoding, and contrastive search{---}have been proposed to address these challenges by improving coherence, diversity, and resemblance to human-generated text. In this study, we introduce Adaptive Contrastive Search (ACS), a novel decoding strategy that extends contrastive search (CS) by incorporating an adaptive degeneration penalty informed by the model{'}s estimated uncertainty at each generation step. ACS aims to enhance creativity and diversity while maintaining coherence to produce high-quality outputs. Extensive experiments across various model architectures, languages, and datasets demonstrate that our approach improves both creativity and coherence, underscoring its effectiveness in text-generation tasks. We release our code, datasets, and models to facilitate further research."}
{"Title": "SSP: Self-Supervised Prompting for Cross-Lingual Transfer to Low-Resource Languages using Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Recently, very large language models (LLMs) have shown exceptional performance on several English NLP tasks with just in-context learning (ICL), but their utility in other languages is still underexplored. We investigate their effectiveness for NLP tasks in low-resource languages (LRLs), especially in the setting of zero-labelled cross-lingual transfer (0-CLT), where no labelled training data for the target language is available {--} however training data from one or more related medium-resource languages (MRLs) is utilized, alongside the available unlabeled test data for a target language. We introduce Self-Supervised Prompting (SSP), a novel ICL approach tailored for the 0-CLT setting. SSP is based on the key observation that LLMs output more accurate labels if in-context exemplars are from the target language (even if their labels are slightly noisy). To operationalize this, since target language training data is not available in 0-CLT, SSP operates in two stages. In Stage I, using source MRL training data, target language{'}s test data is noisily labeled. In Stage II, these noisy test data points are used as exemplars in ICL for further improved labelling. Additionally, our implementation of SSP uses a novel Integer Linear Programming (ILP)-based exemplar selection that balances similarity, prediction confidence (when available) and label coverage. Experiments on three tasks and eleven LRLs (from three regions) demonstrate that SSP strongly outperforms existing SOTA fine-tuned and prompting-based baselines in 0-CLT setup."}
{"Title": "Re-examining Sexism and Misogyny Classification with Annotator Attitudes", "Abstract": "Gender-Based Violence (GBV) is an increasing problem online, but existing datasets fail to capture the plurality of possible annotator perspectives or ensure the representation of affected groups. We revisit two important stages in the moderation pipeline for GBV: (1) manual data labelling; and (2) automated classification. For (1), we examine two datasets to investigate the relationship between annotator identities and attitudes and the responses they give to two GBV labelling tasks. To this end, we collect demographic and attitudinal information from crowd-sourced annotators using three validated surveys from Social Psychology. We find that higher Right Wing Authoritarianism scores are associated with a higher propensity to label text as sexist, while for Social Dominance Orientation and Neosexist Attitudes, higher scores are associated with a negative tendency to do so.For (2), we conduct classification experiments using Large Language Models and five prompting strategies, including infusing prompts with annotator information. We find: (i) annotator attitudes affect the ability of classifiers to predict their labels; (ii) including attitudinal information can boost performance when we use well-structured brief annotator descriptions; and (iii) models struggle to reflect the increased complexity and imbalanced classes of the new label sets."}
{"Title": "When \u201dA Helpful Assistant\u201d Is Not Really Helpful: Personas in System Prompts Do Not Improve Performances of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Prompting serves as the major way humans interact with Large Language Models (LLM). Commercial AI systems commonly define the role of the LLM in system prompts. For example, ChatGPT uses {''}You are a helpful assistant{''} as part of its default system prompt. Despite current practices of adding personas to system prompts, it remains unclear how different personas affect a model{'}s performance on objective tasks. In this study, we present a systematic evaluation of personas in system prompts. We curate a list of 162 roles covering 6 types of interpersonal relationships and 8 domains of expertise. Through extensive analysis of 4 popular families of LLMs and 2,410 factual questions, we demonstrate that adding personas in system prompts does not improve model performance across a range of questions compared to the control setting where no persona is added. Nevertheless, further analysis suggests that the gender, type, and domain of the persona can all influence the resulting prediction accuracies. We further experimented with a list of persona search strategies and found that, while aggregating results from the best persona for each question significantly improves prediction accuracy, automatically identifying the best persona is challenging, with predictions often performing no better than random selection. Overall, our findings suggest that while adding a persona may lead to performance gains in certain settings, the effect of each persona can be largely random. {\\%}Our results can help inform the design of system prompts for AI systems. Code and data are available at https://github.com/Jiaxin-Pei/Prompting-with-Social-Roles."}
{"Title": "Towards Efficient Visual-Language Alignment of the Q-Former for Visual Reasoning Tasks", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in large language models have demonstrated enhanced capabilities in visual reasoning tasks by employing additional encoders for aligning different modalities. While the Q-Former has been widely used as a general encoder for aligning several modalities including image, video, audio, and 3D with large language models, previous works on its efficient training and the analysis of its individual components have been limited. In this work, we investigate the effectiveness of parameter efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) the Q-Former using InstructBLIP with visual reasoning benchmarks ScienceQA and IconQA. We observe that applying PEFT to the Q-Former achieves comparable performance to full fine-tuning using under 2{\\%} of the trainable parameters. Additionally, we employ AdaLoRA for dynamic parameter budget reallocation to examine the relative importance of the Q-Former{'}s sublayers with 4 different benchmarks. Our findings reveal that the self-attention layers are noticeably more important in perceptual visual-language reasoning tasks, and relative importance of FFN layers depends on the complexity of visual-language patterns involved in tasks. The code is available at https://github.com/AttentionX/InstructBLIP{\\_}PEFT."}
{"Title": "Modeling Gender and Dialect Bias in Automatic Speech Recognition", "Abstract": "Dialect and gender-based biases have become an area of concern in language-dependent AI systemsincluding around automatic speech recognition (ASR) which processes speech audio into text. These potential biases raise concern for discriminatory outcomes with AI systems depending on demographic- particularly gender discrimination against women, and racial discrimination against minorities with ethnic or cultural English dialects.As such we aim to evaluate the performance of ASR systems across different genders and across dialects of English. Concretely, we take a deep dive of the performance of ASR systems on men and women across four US-based English dialects: Standard American English (SAE), African American Vernacular English (AAVE), Chicano English, and Spanglish. To do this, we construct a labeled dataset of 13 hours of podcast audio, transcribed by speakers of the represented dialects. We then evaluate zero-shot performance of different automatic speech recognition models on our dataset, and further finetune models to better understand how finetuning can impact performance. Our work fills the gap of investigating possible gender disparities within underrepresented dialects."}
{"Title": "Are Large Language Models Consistent over Value-laden Questions?", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) appear to bias their survey answers toward certain values. Nonetheless, some argue that LLMs are too inconsistent to simulate particular values. Are they? To answer, we first define value consistency as the similarity of answers across 1) \\textit{paraphrases} of one question, 2) related questions under one \\textit{topic}, 3) multiple-choice and open-ended \\textit{use-cases} of one question, and 4) \\textit{multilingual} translations of a question to English, Chinese, German, and Japanese. We apply these measures to a few large, open LLMs including llama-3, as well as gpt-4o, using eight thousand questions spanning more than 300 topics. Unlike prior work, we find that \\textit{models are relatively consistent} across paraphrases, use-cases, translations, and within a topic. Still, some inconsistencies remain. Models are more consistent on uncontroversial topics (e.g., in the U.S., {``}Thanksgiving{''}) than on controversial ones (e.g. {``}euthanasia{''}). Base models are both more consistent compared to fine-tuned models and are uniform in their consistency across topics, while fine-tuned models are more inconsistent about some topics (e.g. {``}euthanasia{''}) than others (e.g. {``}Women{'}s rights{''}) like our human participants."}
{"Title": "xTower: A Multilingual LLM for Explaining and Correcting Translation Errors", "Abstract": "While machine translation (MT) systems are achieving increasingly strong performance on benchmarks, they often produce translations with errors and anomalies. Understanding these errors can potentially help improve the translation quality and user experience. This paper introduces xTower, an open large language model (LLM) built on top of TowerBase designed to provide free-text explanations for translation errors in order to guide the generation of a corrected translation. The quality of the generated explanations by xTower are assessed via both intrinsic and extrinsic evaluation. We ask expert translators to evaluate the quality of the explanations across two dimensions: relatedness towards the error span being explained and helpfulness in error understanding and improving translation quality. Extrinsically, we test xTower across various experimental setups in generating translation corrections, demonstrating significant improvements in translation quality. Our findings highlight xTower{'}s potential towards not only producing plausible and helpful explanations of automatic translations, but also leveraging them to suggest corrected translations."}
{"Title": "LAMBDA: Large Language Model-Based Data Augmentation for Multi-Modal Machine Translation", "Abstract": "Multi-modal machine translation (MMT) can reduce ambiguity and semantic distortion compared with traditional machine translation (MT) by utilizing auxiliary information such as images. However, current MMT methods face two primary challenges. The first is their underperformance compared to MT methods based on pre-trained models. The second is the inadequate exploitation and integration of the image modality within the model, primarily due to a lack of triplet training data. A mainstream approach is to introduce large amounts of parallel and monolingual data to train the text model and the visual model separately. However, incorporating extensive external data can result in data imbalance, which may introduce biases during training. Additionally, the collection and cleaning of such large datasets is labor-intensive. To overcome these challenges, we introduce a novel, low-cost, large language model-based data augmentation method called LAMBDA, which can enrich the original samples and expand the dataset without requiring external images and text. We propose a fine-grained image captioning module with a noise filter to hierarchically and accurately extract unexploited information from images. Additionally, we design two specific prompts to guide the GPT-3.5 model in generating enriched texts and the corresponding translations. The enriched samples contain diverse text and strong connections between text and images, leading to significant improvements for MMT baselines, with the highest being an increase of up to 3.83 BLEU score and 3.61 METEOR score."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Differentially Private Synthetic Data Generation in High-Stakes Domains", "Abstract": "The difficulty of anonymizing text data hinders the development and deployment of NLP in high-stakes domains that involve private data, such as healthcare and social services. Poorly anonymized sensitive data cannot be easily shared with annotators or external researchers, nor can it be used to train public models. In this work, we explore the feasibility of using synthetic data generated from differentially private language models in place of real data to facilitate the development of NLP in these domains without compromising privacy. In contrast to prior work, we generate synthetic data for real high-stakes domains, and we propose and conduct use-inspired evaluations to assess data quality. Our results show that prior simplistic evaluations have failed to highlight utility, privacy, and fairness issues in the synthetic data. Overall, our work underscores the need for further improvements to synthetic data generation for it to be a viable way to enable privacy-preserving data sharing."}
{"Title": "Dual Process Masking for Dialogue Act Recognition", "Abstract": "Dialogue act recognition is the task of classifying conversational utterances based on their communicative intent or function. To address this problem, we propose a novel two-phase processing approach called Dual-Process Masking. This approach streamlines the task by masking less important tokens in the input, identified through retrospective analysis of their estimated contribution during training. It enhances interpretability by using the masks applied during classification learning. Dual-Process Masking significantly improves performance over strong baselines for dialogue act recognition on a collaborative problem-solving dataset and three public dialogue benchmarks."}
{"Title": "XC-Cache: Cross-Attending to Cached Context for Efficient LLM Inference", "Abstract": "Prompts are often employed to condition decoder-only language model generation on reference information. Just-in-time processing of a context is inefficient due to the quadratic cost of self-attention operations, and caching is desirable. However, caching transformer states can easily require almost as much space as the model parameters. When the right context is not known in advance, caching the prompt can be challenging. This work addresses these limitations by introducing models that, inspired by the encoder-decoder architecture, use cross-attention to condition generation on reference text without the prompt. More precisely, we leverage pre-trained decoder-only models and only train a small number of added layers. We use Question-Answering (QA) as a testbed to evaluate the ability of our models to perform conditional generation and observe that they outperform prompt-based inference methods, are comparable to fine-tuned prompted LLMs, and drastically reduce the space footprint relative to standard KV caching by two orders of magnitude. Specifically, we introduced XC-Llama which converts a pre-trained Llama 2 into an encoder-decoder architecture by integrating cross-attention layers interleaved in between existing self-attention layers."}
{"Title": "Pioneering Reliable Assessment in Text-to-Image Knowledge Editing: Leveraging a Fine-Grained Dataset and an Innovative Criterion", "Abstract": "During pre-training, the Text-to-Image (T2I) diffusion models encode factual knowledge into their parameters. These parameterized facts enable realistic image generation, but they may become obsolete over time, thereby misrepresenting the current state of the world. Knowledge editing techniques aim to update model knowledge in a targeted way. However, facing the dual challenges posed by inadequate editing datasets and unreliable evaluation criterion, the development of T2I knowledge editing encounter difficulties in effectively generalizing injected knowledge. In this work, we design a T2I knowledge editing framework by comprehensively spanning on three phases: First, we curate a dataset \\textbf{CAKE}, comprising paraphrase and multi-object test, to enable more fine-grained assessment on knowledge generalization. Second, we propose a novel criterion, \\textbf{adaptive CLIP threshold}, to effectively filter out false successful images under the current criterion and achieve reliable editing evaluation. Finally, we introduce \\textbf{MPE}, a simple but effective approach for T2I knowledge editing. Instead of tuning parameters, MPE precisely recognizes and edits the outdated part of the conditioning text-prompt to accommodate the up-to-date knowledge. A straightforward implementation of MPE (Based on in-context learning) exhibits better overall performance than previous model editors. We hope these efforts can further promote faithful evaluation of T2I knowledge editing methods."}
{"Title": "DEFT: Distribution-guided Efficient Fine-Tuning for Human Alignment", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Eigen Attention: Attention in Low-Rank Space for KV Cache Compression", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) represent a groundbreaking advancement in the domain of natural language processing due to their impressive reasoning abilities. Recently, there has been considerable interest in increasing the context lengths for these models to enhance their applicability to complex tasks. However, at long context lengths and large batch sizes, the key-value (KV) cache, which stores the attention keys and values, emerges as the new bottleneck in memory usage during inference. To address this, we propose Eigen Attention, which performs the attention operation in a low-rank space, thereby reducing the KV cache memory overhead. Our proposed approach is orthogonal to existing KV cache compression techniques and can be used synergistically with them. Through extensive experiments over OPT, MPT, and Llama model families, we demonstrate that Eigen Attention results in up to 40{\\%} reduction in KV cache sizes and up to 60{\\%} reduction in attention operation latency with minimal drop in performance."}
{"Title": "ACCEPT: Adaptive Codebook for Composite and Efficient Prompt Tuning", "Abstract": "Prompt Tuning has been a popular Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning method attributed to its remarkable performance with few updated parameters on various large-scale pretrained Language Models (PLMs). Traditionally, each prompt has been considered indivisible and updated independently, leading the parameters increase proportionally as prompt length grows. To address this issue, we propose Adaptive Codebook for Composite and Efficient Prompt Tuning (ACCEPT). In our method, we refer to the concept of product quantization (PQ), allowing all soft prompts to share a set of learnable codebook vectors in each subspace, with each prompt differentiated by a set of adaptive weights. We achieve the superior performance on 17 diverse natural language tasks including natural language understanding (NLU) and question answering (QA) tasks by tuning only 0.3{\\%} of parameters of the PLMs. Our approach also excels in few-shot and large model settings, highlighting its significant potential."}
{"Title": "Beyond Perplexity: Multi-dimensional Safety Evaluation of LLM Compression", "Abstract": "Increasingly, model compression techniques enable large language models (LLMs) to be deployed in real-world applications. As a result of this momentum towards local deployment, compressed LLMs will interact with a large population. Prior work on compression typically prioritize preserving perplexity, which is directly analogous to training loss. The impact of compression method on other critical aspects of model behavior{---}particularly safety{---}requires systematic assessment. To this end, we investigate the impact of model compression along four dimensions: (1) degeneration harm, i.e., bias and toxicity in generation; (2) representational harm, i.e., biases in discriminative tasks; (3) dialect bias; and (4) language modeling and downstream task performance. We examine a wide spectrum of LLM compression techniques, including unstructured pruning, semi-structured pruning, and quantization. Our analysis reveals that compression can lead to unexpected consequences. Although compression may unintentionally alleviate LLMs{'} degeneration harm, it can still exacerbate representational harm. Furthermore, increasing compression produces a divergent impact on different protected groups. Finally, different compression methods have drastically different safety impacts: for example, quantization mostly preserves bias while pruning degrades quickly. Our findings underscore the importance of integrating safety assessments into the development of compressed LLMs to ensure their reliability across real-world applications."}
{"Title": "One-to-many testing for code generation from (just) natural language", "Abstract": "MBPP is a popular dataset for evaluating the task of code generation from natural language. Despite its popularity, there are three problems: (1) it relies on providing test cases to generate the right signature, (2) there is poor alignment between instruction and evaluation test cases, and (3) contamination of the exact phrasing being present in training datasets. We adapt MBPP to emphasize on generating code from just natural language by (1) removing ambiguity about the semantics of the task from the descriptions, and (2) evaluating generated code on multiple sets of assertions to account for ambiguity in the syntax. We compare popular open and closed weight models on the original (MBPP) and adapted (MBUPP) datasets."}
{"Title": "A Unified Framework for Model Editing", "Abstract": "ROME and MEMIT are largely believed to be two different model editing algorithms, with the major difference between them being the ability to perform batched edits. In this paper, we unify these two algorithms under a single conceptual umbrella, optimizing for the same goal, which we call the preservation-memorization objective. ROME uses an equality constraint to optimize this objective to perform one edit at a time, whereas MEMIT employs a more flexible least-square constraint that allows for batched edits. We generalize ROME and enable batched editing with equality constraint in the form of EMMET - an Equality-constrained Mass Model Editing algorithm for Transformers, a new batched memory-editing algorithm. EMMET can perform batched-edits up to a batch-size of 10,000, with very similar performance to MEMIT across multiple dimensions. With the introduction of EMMET, we truly unify ROME and MEMIT and show that both algorithms are equivalent in terms of their optimization objective, their abilities (singular and batched editing), their model editing performance and their limitations."}
{"Title": "M3SciQA: A Multi-Modal Multi-Document Scientific QA Benchmark for Evaluating Foundation Models", "Abstract": "Existing evaluation benchmarks for foundation models in understanding scientific literature predominantly focus on single-document, text-only tasks. Such benchmarks often do not adequately represent the complexity of research workflows, which typically also involve interpreting non-textual data, such as figures and tables, and gathering information across multiple documents and related literature. To address this gap, we introduce M3SciQA, a multi-modal, multi-document scientific question answering benchmark designed for a more comprehensive evaluation of foundation models. M3Sci QA consists of 1452 expert-annotated questions spanning 70 natural language processing paper clusters, where each cluster represents a primary paper along with all its cited documents, mirroring the workflow of comprehending a single paper by requiring multi-modal and multi-document data. With M3SciQA, we conduct a comprehensive evaluation of 18 frontier foundation models. Our results indicate that current foundation models still significantly underperform compared to human experts in multi-modal information retrieval and in reasoning across multiple scientific documents. Additionally, we explore the implications of these findings for the future advancement of applying foundation models in multi-modal scientific literature analysis."}
{"Title": "Probing the Capacity of Language Model Agents to Operationalize Disparate Experiential Context Despite Distraction", "Abstract": "Large language model (LLM) agents show promise in an increasing number of domains. In many proposed applications, it is expected that the agent reasons over accumulated experience presented in an input prompt. We propose the OEDD (Operationalize Experience Despite Distraction) corpus, a human-annotator-validated body of scenarios with pre-scripted agent histories where the agent must make a decision based on disparate experiential information in the presence of a distractor. We evaluate three state-of-the-art LLMs (GPT-3.5 Turbo, GPT-4o, and Gemini 1.5 Pro) using a minimal chain-of-thought prompting strategy and observe that when (1) the input context contains over 1,615 tokens of historical interactions, (2) a crucially decision-informing premise is the rightful conclusion over two disparate environment premises, and (3) a trivial, but distracting red herring fact follows, all LLMs perform worse than random choice at selecting the better of two actions. Our code and test corpus are publicly available at: [github.com/sonnygeorge/OEDD](github.com/sonnygeorge/OEDD)."}
{"Title": "Knowledge-Centric Templatic Views of Documents", "Abstract": "Authors seeking to communicate with broader audiences often share their ideas in various document formats, such as slide decks, newsletters, reports, and posters. Prior work on document generation has generally tackled the creation of each separate format to be a different task, leading to fragmented learning processes, redundancy in models and methods, and disjointed evaluation. We consider each of these documents as templatic views of the same underlying knowledge/content, and we aim to unify the generation and evaluation of these templatic views. We begin by showing that current LLMs are capable of generating various document formats with little to no supervision. Further, a simple augmentation involving a structured intermediate representation can improve performance, especially for smaller models. We then introduce a novel unified evaluation framework that can be adapted to measuring the quality of document generators for heterogeneous downstream applications. This evaluation is adaptable to a range of user defined criteria and application scenarios, obviating the need for task specific evaluation metrics. Finally, we conduct a human evaluation, which shows that people prefer 82{\\%} of the documents generated with our method, while correlating more highly with our unified evaluation framework than prior metrics in the literature."}
{"Title": "Shoes-ACOSI: A Dataset for Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis with Implicit Opinion Extraction", "Abstract": "We explore *implicit opinion extraction* as a new component of aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) systems. Prior work in ABSA has investigated opinion extraction as an important subtask, however, these works only label concise, *explicitly*-stated opinion spans. In this work, we present **Shoes-ACOSI**, a new and challenging ABSA dataset in the e-commerce domain with implicit opinion span annotations, the first of its kind. Shoes-ACOSI builds upon the existing Aspect-Category-Opinion-Sentiment (ACOS) quadruple extraction task, extending the task to quintuple extraction{---}now localizing and differentiating both implicit and explicit opinion. In addition to the new annotation schema, our dataset contains paragraph-length inputs which, importantly, present complex challenges through increased input length, increased number of sentiment expressions, and more mixed-sentiment-polarity examples when compared with existing benchmarks. We quantify the difficulty of our new dataset by evaluating with state-of-the-art fully-supervised and prompted-LLM baselines. We find our dataset presents significant challenges for both supervised models and LLMs, particularly from the new implicit opinion extraction component of the ACOSI task, highlighting the need for continued research into implicit opinion understanding."}
{"Title": "Socratic Human Feedback (SoHF): Expert Steering Strategies for LLM Code Generation", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly used for generating code solutions, empowered by features like self-debugging and self-reflection. However, LLMs often struggle with complex programming problems without human guidance. This paper investigates the strategies employed by expert programmers to steer code-generating LLMs toward successful outcomes. Through a study involving experts using natural language to guide GPT-4, Gemini Ultra, and, Claude 3.5 Sonnet on highly difficult programming challenges, we frame our analysis using the {``}Socratic Feedback{''} paradigm for understanding effective steering strategies. By analyzing 30 conversational transcripts across all three models, we map observed feedback strategies to five stages of Socratic Questioning: Definition, Elenhus, Maieutic, Dialectic, and Counter-factual reasoning. We find evidence that by employing a combination of different Socratic feedback strategies across multiple turns, programmers successfully guided the models to solve 74{\\%} of the problems that the models initially failed to solve on their own."}
{"Title": "Large Language Models Know What To Say But Not When To Speak", "Abstract": "Turn-taking is a fundamental mechanism in human communication that ensures smooth and coherent verbal interactions. Recent advances in Large Language Models (LLMs) have motivated their use in improving the turn-taking capabilities of Spoken Dialogue Systems (SDS), such as their ability to respond at appropriate times. However, existing models often struggle to predict \\textit{opportunities} for speaking {---} called Transition Relevance Places (TRPs) {---} in natural, unscripted conversations, focusing only on turn-final TRPs and not within-turn TRPs. To address these limitations, we introduce a novel dataset of participant-labeled within-turn TRPs and use it to evaluate the performance of state-of-the-art LLMs in predicting opportunities for speaking. Our experiments reveal the current limitations of LLMs in modeling unscripted spoken interactions, highlighting areas for improvement and paving the way for more naturalistic dialogue systems."}
{"Title": "Towards Explainable Chinese Native Learner Essay Fluency Assessment: Dataset, Tasks, and Method", "Abstract": "Grammatical Error Correction (GEC) is a crucial technique in Automated Essay Scoring (AES) for evaluating the fluency of essays. However, in Chinese, existing GEC datasets often fail to consider the importance of specific grammatical error types within compositional scenarios, lack research on data collected from native Chinese speakers, and largely overlook cross-sentence grammatical errors. Furthermore, the measurement of the overall fluency of an essay is often overlooked. To address these issues, we present CEFA (Chinese Essay Fluency Assessment), an extensive corpus that is derived from essays authored by native Chinese-speaking primary and secondary students and encapsulates essay fluency scores along with both coarse and fine-grained grammatical error types and corrections. Experiments employing various benchmark models on CEFA substantiate the challenge of our dataset. Our findings further highlight the significance of fine-grained annotations in fluency assessment and the mutually beneficial relationship between error types and corrections"}
{"Title": "CoCoHD: Congress Committee Hearing Dataset", "Abstract": "U.S. congressional hearings significantly influence the national economy and social fabric, impacting individual lives. Despite their importance, there is a lack of comprehensive datasets for analyzing these discourses. To address this, we propose the **Co**ngress **Co**mmittee **H**earing **D**ataset (CoCoHD), covering hearings from 1997 to 2024 across 86 committees, with 32,697 records. This dataset enables researchers to study policy language on critical issues like healthcare, LGBTQ+ rights, and climate justice. We demonstrate its potential with a case study on 1,000 energy-related sentences, analyzing the Energy and Commerce Committee{'}s stance on fossil fuel consumption. By fine-tuning pre-trained language models, we create energy-relevant measures for each hearing. Our market analysis shows that natural language analysis using CoCoHD can predict and highlight trends in the energy sector."}
{"Title": "Student Data Paradox and Curious Case of Single Student-Tutor Model: Regressive Side Effects of Training LLMs for Personalized Learning", "Abstract": "The pursuit of personalized education has led to the integration of Large Language Models (LLMs) in developing intelligent tutoring systems. To better understand and adapt to individual student needs, including their misconceptions, LLMs need to be trained on extensive datasets of student-tutor dialogues. Our research uncovers a fundamental challenge in this approach: the {``}Student Data Paradox{''}. This paradox emerges when LLMs, trained on student data to understand learner behavior, inadvertently compromise their own factual knowledge and reasoning abilities. We investigate this paradox by training state-of-the-art language models on student-tutor dialogue datasets and evaluating their performance across multiple benchmarks. These benchmarks assess various aspects of language model capabilities, including reasoning, truthfulness, and common sense understanding. Our findings reveal significant declines in the models{'} performance across these diverse benchmarks, indicating a broad impact on their capabilities when trained to model student behavior. Our research makes two primary contributions: (1) empirical demonstration of the Student Data Paradox through quantitative analysis of model performance, and (2) introduction of {``}hallucination tokens{''} as a mitigation strategy. These tokens, while improving performance, highlight the persistent challenge of balancing accurate student behavior modeling with maintaining the LLM{'}s integrity as an educational tool.This study emphasizes the need for innovative solutions to reconcile the conflicting goals of faithfully understanding diverse student cognition while preserving the model{'}s ability to provide accurate information and guidance."}
{"Title": "MalAlgoQA: Pedagogical Evaluation of Counterfactual Reasoning in Large Language Models and Implications for AI in Education", "Abstract": "This paper introduces MalAlgoQA, a novel dataset designed to evaluate the counterfactual reasoning capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) through a pedagogical approach. The dataset comprises mathematics and reading comprehension questions, each accompanied by four answer choices and their corresponding rationales. At the heart of MalAlgoQA are {``}malgorithms{''} - rationales behind incorrect answer choices that represent flawed yet logically coherent reasoning paths. These malgorithms serve as counterfactual scenarios, allowing us to assess an LLM{'}s ability to identify and analyze flawed reasoning patterns. We propose the Malgorithm Identification task, where LLMs are assessed based on their ability to identify corresponding malgorithm given an incorrect answer choice. To evaluate the model performance, we introduce two metrics: Algorithm Identification Accuracy (AIA) for correct answer rationale identification, and Malgorithm Identification Accuracy (MIA) for incorrect answer rationale identification. Our experiments reveal that state-of-the-art LLMs exhibit significant performance drops in MIA compared to AIA, highlighting the challenges in counterfactual reasoning.Surprisingly, we find that the chain-of-thought prompting technique not only fails to consistently enhance MIA but can sometimes lead to underperformance compared to simple prompting. These findings have important implications for developing LLMs with improved counterfactual reasoning, particularly relevant for AI-powered tutoring systems, where identifying and addressing student misconceptions is essential. MalAlgoQA dataset is available here."}
{"Title": "Sonnet or Not, Bot? Poetry Evaluation for Large Models and Datasets", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) can now generate and recognize poetry. But what do LLMs really know about poetry? We develop a task to evaluate how well LLMs recognize one aspect of English-language poetry{---}poetic form{---}which captures many different poetic features, including rhyme scheme, meter, and word or line repetition. By using a benchmark dataset of over 4.1k human expert-annotated poems, we show that state-of-the-art LLMs can successfully identify both common and uncommon fixed poetic forms{---}such as sonnets, sestinas, and pantoums{---}with surprisingly high accuracy. However, performance varies significantly by poetic form; the models struggle to identify unfixed poetic forms, especially those based on topic or visual features. We additionally measure how many poems from our benchmark dataset are present in popular pretraining datasets or memorized by GPT-4, finding that pretraining presence and memorization may improve performance on this task, but results are inconclusive. We release a benchmark evaluation dataset with 1.4k public domain poems and form annotations, results of memorization experiments and data audits, and code."}
{"Title": "Merge to Learn: Efficiently Adding Skills to Language Models with Model Merging", "Abstract": "Adapting general-purpose language models to new skills is currently an expensive process that must be repeated as new instruction datasets targeting new skills are created, or can cause the models to forget older skills. In this work, we investigate the effectiveness of adding new skills to preexisting models by training on the new skills in isolation and later merging with the general model (e.g. using task vectors). In experiments focusing on scientific literature understanding, safety, and coding, we find that the parallel-train-then-merge procedure, which is significantly cheaper than retraining the models on updated data mixtures, is often comparably effective. Our experiments also show that parallel training is especially well-suited for enabling safety features in LMs relative to continued finetuning and retraining, as it dramatically improves model compliance with safe prompts while preserving its ability to refuse dangerous or harmful prompts."}
{"Title": "To Ask LLMs about English Grammaticality, Prompt Them in a Different Language", "Abstract": "In addition to asking questions about facts in the world, some internet users{---}in particular, second language learners{---}ask questions about language itself. Depending on their proficiency level and audience, they may pose these questions in an L1 (first language) or an L2 (second language). We investigate how multilingual LLMs perform at crosslingual metalinguistic question answering. Focusing on binary questions about sentence grammaticality constructed from error-annotated learner corpora, we prompt three LLMs (Aya, Llama, and GPT) in multiple languages, including English, German, Korean, Russian, and Ukrainian. Our study reveals that the language of the prompt can significantly affect model performance, and despite English being the dominant training language for all three models, prompting in a different language with questions about English often yields better results."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Short-Text Topic Modeling with LLM-Driven Context Expansion and Prefix-Tuned VAEs", "Abstract": "Topic modeling is a powerful technique for uncovering hidden themes within a collection of documents. However, the effectiveness of traditional topic models often relies on sufficient word co-occurrence, which is lacking in short texts. Therefore, existing approaches, whether probabilistic or neural, frequently struggle to extract meaningful patterns from such data, resulting in incoherent topics. To address this challenge, we propose a novel approach that leverages large language models (LLMs) to extend short texts into more detailed sequences before applying topic modeling. To further improve the efficiency and solve the problem of semantic inconsistency from LLM-generated texts, we propose to use prefix tuning to train a smaller language model coupled with a variational autoencoder for short-text topic modeling. Our method significantly improves short-text topic modeling performance, as demonstrated by extensive experiments on real-world datasets with extreme data sparsity, outperforming current state-of-the-art topic models."}
{"Title": "Targeted Multilingual Adaptation for Low-resource Language Families", "Abstract": "Massively multilingual models are known to have limited utility in any one language, and to perform particularly poorly on low-resource languages. By contrast, targeted multinguality has been shown to benefit low-resource languages. To test this approach more rigorously, we systematically study best practices for adapting a pre-trained model to a language family. Focusing on the Uralic family as a test case, we adapt XLM-R under various configurations to model 15 languages; we then evaluate the performance of each experimental setting on two downstream tasks and 11 evaluation languages. Our adapted models significantly outperform mono- and multilingual baselines. A regression analysis reveals that adapted vocabulary size is relatively unimportant for low-resource languages, and that low-resource languages can be aggressively up-sampled during training at little detriment to performance in high-resource languages. These results introduce new best practices for performing language adaptation in a targeted setting."}
{"Title": "A Pointer Network-based Approach for Joint Extraction and Detection of Multi-Label Multi-Class Intents", "Abstract": "In task-oriented dialogue systems, intent detection is crucial for interpreting user queries and providing appropriate responses. Existing research primarily addresses simple queries with a single intent, lacking effective systems for handling complex queries with multiple intents and extracting different intent spans. Additionally, there is a notable absence of multilingual, multi-intent datasets. This study addresses three critical tasks: extracting multiple intent spans from queries, detecting multiple intents, and developing a multilingual multi-label intent dataset. We introduce a novel multi-label multi-class intent detection dataset (MLMCID-dataset) curated from existing benchmark datasets. We also propose a pointer network-based architecture (MLMCID) to extract intent spans and detect multiple intents with coarse and fine-grained labels in the form of sextuplets. Comprehensive analysis demonstrates the superiority of our pointer network based system over baseline approaches in terms of accuracy and F1-score across various datasets."}
{"Title": "Cost-Performance Optimization for Processing Low-Resource Language Tasks Using Commercial LLMs", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) exhibit impressive zero/few-shot inference and generation quality for high-resource languages (HRLs). A few of them have been trained on low-resource languages (LRLs) and give decent performance. Owing to the prohibitive costs of training LLMs, they are usually used as a network service, with the client charged by the count of input and output tokens. The number of tokens strongly depends on the script and language, as well as the LLM{'}s subword vocabulary. We show that LRLs are at a pricing disadvantage, because the well-known LLMs produce more tokens for LRLs than HRLs. This is because most currently popular LLMs are optimized for HRL vocabularies. Our objective is to level the playing field: reduce the cost of processing LRLs in contemporary LLMs while ensuring that predictive and generative qualities are not compromised. As means to reduce the number of tokens processed by the LLM, we consider code-mixing, translation, and transliteration of LRLs to HRLs. We perform an extensive study using the IndicXTREME classification and six generative tasks dataset, covering 15 Indic and 3 other languages, while using GPT-4 (one of the costliest LLM services released so far) as a commercial LLM. We observe and analyze interesting patterns involving token count, cost, and quality across a multitude of languages and tasks. We show that choosing the best policy to interact with the LLM can reduce cost by {\\textasciitilde}90{\\%} while giving better or comparable performance, compared to communicating with the LLM in the original LRL."}
{"Title": "Advancing Vision-Language Models with Adapter Ensemble Strategies", "Abstract": "CLIP revolutes vision-language pretraining by using contrastive learning on paired web data. However, the sheer size of these pretrained models makes full-model finetuning exceedingly costly. One common solution is the {``}adapter{''}, which finetunes a few additional parameters while freezing the backbone. It harnesses the heavy-duty backbone while offering a light finetuning for small downstream tasks. This synergy prompts us to explore the potential of augmenting large-scale backbones with traditional machine learning techniques. Often employed in traditional fields and overlooked in the large-scale era, these techniques could provide valuable enhancements. Herein, we delve into the {``}adapter ensembles{''} in the realm of large-scale pretrained vision-language models. We begin with a proof-of-concept study to establish the efficacy of combining multiple adapters. We then present extensive evidence showing these ensembles excel in a variety of settings, particularly when employing a Multi-Scale Attention (MSA) approach thoughtfully integrated into the ensemble framework. We further incorporate the LoRA to mitigate the additional parameter burden. We focus on vision-language retrieval, using different backbones under constraints of minimal data, parameters, and finetuning budgets. This research paves the way for a synergistic blend of traditional, yet effective, strategies with modern large-scale networks."}
{"Title": "Who Wrote When? Author Diarization in Social Media Discussions", "Abstract": "We are proposing a novel framework for author diarization, i.e. attributing comments in online discussions to individual authors. We consider an innovative approach that merges pre-trained neural representations of writing style with author-conditional encoder-decoder diarization, enhanced by a Conditional Random Field with Viterbi decoding for alignment refinement. Additionally, we introduce two new large-scale German language datasets, one for authorship verification and the other for author diarization. We evaluate the performance of our diarization framework on these datasets, offering insights into the strengths and limitations of this approach."}
{"Title": "Controlled Transformation of Text-Attributed Graphs", "Abstract": "Graph generation is the process of generating novel graphs with similar attributes to real world graphs. The explicit and precise control of granular structural attributes, such as node centrality and graph density, is crucial for effective graph generation. This paper introduces a controllable multi-objective translation model for text-attributed graphs, titled Controlled Graph Translator (CGT). It is designed to effectively and efficiently translate a given source graph to a target graph, while satisfying multiple desired graph attributes at granular level. Designed with an encoder-decoder architecture, CGT develops fusion and graph attribute predictor neural networks for controlled graph translation. We validate the effectiveness of CGT through extensive experiments on different genres of datasets. In addition, we illustrate the application of CGT in data augmentation and taxonomy creation, particularly in low resource settings."}
{"Title": "Misinformation with Legal Consequences (MisLC): A New Task Towards Harnessing Societal Harm of Misinformation", "Abstract": "Misinformation, defined as false or inaccurate information, can result in significant societal harm when it is spread with malicious or even unintentional intent. The rapid online information exchange necessitates advanced detection mechanisms to mitigate misinformation-induced harm. Existing research, however, has predominantly focused on the veracity of information, overlooking the legal implications and consequences of misinformation. In this work, we take a novel angle to consolidate the definition of misinformation detection using legal issues as a measurement of societal ramifications, aiming to bring interdisciplinary efforts to tackle misinformation and its consequence. We introduce a new task: Misinformation with Legal Consequence (MisLC), which leverages definitions from a wide range of legal domains covering 4 broader legal topics and 11 fine-grained legal issues, including hate speech, election laws, and privacy regulations. For this task, we advocate a two-step dataset curation approach that utilizes crowd-sourced checkworthiness and expert evaluations of misinformation. We provide insights about the MisLC task through empirical evidence, from the problem definition to experiments and expert involvement. While the latest large language models and retrieval-augmented generation are effective baselines for the task, we find they are still far from replicating expert performance."}
{"Title": "CASE: Efficient Curricular Data Pre-training for Building Assistive Psychology Expert Models", "Abstract": "The limited availability of psychologists necessitates efficient identification of individuals requiring urgent mental healthcare. This study explores the use of Natural Language Processing (NLP) pipelines to analyze text data from online mental health forums used for consultations. By analyzing forum posts, these pipelines can flag users who may require immediate professional attention. A crucial challenge in this domain is data privacy and scarcity. To address this, we propose utilizing readily available curricular texts used in institutes specializing in mental health for pre-training the NLP pipelines. This helps us mimic the training process of a psychologist. Our work presents CASE-BERT that flags potential mental health disorders based on forum text. CASE-BERT demonstrates superior performance compared to existing methods, achieving an f1 score of 0.91 for Depression and 0.88 for Anxiety, two of the most commonly reported mental health disorders. Our code and data are publicly available."}
{"Title": "Explicit Inductive Inference using Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) are reported to hold undesirable attestation bias on inference tasks: when asked to predict if a premise $P$ entails a hypothesis $H$, instead of considering $H${`}s conditional truthfulness entailed by $P$, LLMs tend to use the out-of-context truth label of $H$ as a fragile proxy. In this paper, we propose a pipeline that exploits this bias to do explicit inductive inference. Our pipeline uses an LLM to transform a premise into a set of attested alternatives, and then aggregate answers of the derived new entailment inquiries to support the original inference prediction. On a directional predicate entailment benchmark, we demonstrate that by applying this simple pipeline, we can improve the overall performance of LLMs on inference and substantially alleviate the impact of their attestation bias."}
{"Title": "Less is More: Making Smaller Language Models Competent Subgraph Retrievers for Multi-hop KGQA", "Abstract": "Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is widely used to inject external non-parametric knowledge into large language models (LLMs). Recent works suggest that Knowledge Graphs (KGs) contain valuable external knowledge for LLMs. Retrieving information from KGs differs from extracting it from document sets. Most existing approaches seek to directly retrieve relevant subgraphs, thereby eliminating the need for extensive SPARQL annotations, traditionally required by semantic parsing methods. In this paper, we model the subgraph retrieval task as a conditional generation task handled by small language models. Specifically, we define a subgraph identifier as a sequence of relations, each represented as a special token stored in the language models. Our base generative subgraph retrieval model, consisting of only 220M parameters, achieves competitive retrieval performance compared to state-of-the-art models relying on 7B parameters, demonstrating that small language models are capable of performing the subgraph retrieval task. Furthermore, our largest 3B model, when plugged with an LLM reader, sets new SOTA end-to-end performance on both the WebQSP and CWQ benchmarks. Our model and data will be made available online: https://github.com/hwy9855/GSR."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Gender Bias of LLMs in Making Morality Judgements", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown remarkable capabilities in a multitude of Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks. However, these models are still not immune to limitations such as social biases, especially gender bias. This work investigates whether current closed and open-source LLMs possess gender bias, especially when asked to give moral opinions. To evaluate these models, we curate and introduce a new dataset GenMO (Gender-bias in Morality Opinions) comprising parallel short stories featuring male and female characters respectively. Specifically, we test models from the GPT family (GPT-3.5-turbo, GPT-3.5-turbo-instruct, GPT-4-turbo), Llama 3 and 3.1 families (8B/70B), Mistral-7B and Claude 3 families (Sonnet and Opus). Surprisingly, despite employing safety checks, all production-standard models we tested display significant gender bias with GPT-3.5-turbo giving biased opinions in 24{\\%} of the samples. Additionally, all models consistently favour female characters, with GPT showing bias in 68-85{\\%} of cases and Llama 3 in around 81-85{\\%} instances. Additionally, our study investigates the impact of model parameters on gender bias and explores real-world situations where LLMs reveal biases in moral decision-making."}
{"Title": "A Study of Parameter Efficient Fine-tuning by Learning to Efficiently Fine-Tune", "Abstract": "The growing size of large language models (LLMs) requires parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods for their adaptation to new tasks. Existing methods, such as Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA), typically involve model adaptation by training the PEFT parameters. One open problem required to be solved to effectively employ these methods is the identification of PEFT parameters. More precisely, related works identify PEFT parameters by projecting high dimensional parameters of LLMs onto low dimensional parameter manifolds with predefined projections, or identifying PEFT parameters as projections themselves. To study this problem, we propose a new approach called Learning to Efficiently Fine-tune (LEFT) where we aim to learn spaces of PEFT parameters from data. In order to learn how to generate the PEFT parameters on a learned parameter space while fine-tuning the LLMs, we propose the Parameter Generation (PG) method. In the experimental analyses, we examine the effectiveness of our solutions exploring accuracy of fine-tuned LLMs and characteristics of PEFT parameters on benchmark GLUE tasks."}
{"Title": "Explaining Mixtures of Sources in News Articles", "Abstract": "Human writers plan, {\\_}then{\\_} write. For large language models (LLMs) to play a role in longer-form article generation, we must understand the planning steps humans make before writing. We explore one kind of planning, source-selection in news, as a case-study for evaluating plans in long-form generation. We ask: why do {\\_}specific{\\_} stories call for {\\_}specific{\\_} kinds of sources? We imagine a generative process for story writing where a source-selection schema is first selected by a journalist, and then sources are chosen based on categories in that schema. Learning the article{'}s {\\_}plan{\\_} means predicting the schema initially chosen by the journalist. Working with professional journalists, we adapt five existing schemata and introduce three new ones to describe journalistic plans for the inclusion of sources in documents. Then, inspired by Bayesian latent-variable modeling, we develop metrics to select the most likely plan, or schema, underlying a story, which we use to compare schemata. We find that two schemata: {\\_}stance{\\_} and {\\_}social affiliation{\\_} best explain source plans in most documents. However, other schemata like {\\_}textual entailment{\\_} explain source plans in factually rich topics like {``}Science{''}. Finally, we find we can predict the most suitable schema given just the article{'}s headline with reasonable accuracy. We see this as an important case-study for human planning, and provides a framework and approach for evaluating other kinds of plans, like discourse or plot-oriented plans. We release a corpora, {\\_}NewsSources{\\_}, with annotations for 4M articles, for further study."}
{"Title": "LLM generated responses to mitigate the impact of hate speech", "Abstract": "In this study, we explore the use of Large Language Models (LLMs) to counteract hate speech. We conducted the first real-life A/B test assessing the effectiveness of LLM-generated counter-speech. During the experiment, we posted 753 automatically generated responses aimed at reducing user engagement under tweets that contained hate speech toward Ukrainian refugees in Poland.Our work shows that interventions with LLM-generated responses significantly decrease user engagement, particularly for original tweets with at least ten views, reducing it by over 20{\\%}. This paper outlines the design of our automatic moderation system, proposes a simple metric for measuring user engagement and details the methodology of conducting such an experiment. We discuss the ethical considerations and challenges in deploying generative AI for discourse moderation."}
{"Title": "Locally Measuring Cross-lingual Lexical Alignment: A Domain and Word Level Perspective", "Abstract": "NLP research on aligning lexical representation spaces to one another has so far focused on aligning language spaces in their entirety. However, cognitive science has long focused on a local perspective, investigating whether translation equivalents truly share the same meaning or the extent that cultural and regional influences result in meaning variations. With recent technological advances and the increasing amounts of available data, the longstanding question of cross-lingual lexical alignment can now be approached in a more data-driven manner. However, developing metrics for the task requires some methodology for comparing metric efficacy. We address this gap and present a methodology for analyzing both synthetic validations and a novel naturalistic validation using lexical gaps in the kinship domain.We further propose new metrics, hitherto unexplored on this task, based on contextualized embeddings. Our analysis spans 16 diverse languages, demonstrating that there is substantial room for improvement with the use of newer language models. Our research paves the way for more accurate and nuanced cross-lingual lexical alignment methodologies and evaluation."}
{"Title": "SaSR-Net: Source-Aware Semantic Representation Network for Enhancing Audio-Visual Question Answering", "Abstract": "Audio-Visual Question Answering (AVQA) is a challenging task that involves answering questions based on both auditory and visual information in videos. A significant challenge is interpreting complex multi-modal scenes, which include both visual objects and sound sources, and connecting them to the given question. In this paper, we introduce the Source-aware Semantic Representation Network (SaSR-Net), a novel model designed for AVQA. SaSR-Net utilizes source-wise learnable tokens to efficiently capture and align audio-visual elements with the corresponding question. It streamlines the fusion of audio and visual information using spatial and temporal attention mechanisms to identify answers in multi-modal scenes. Extensive experiments on the Music-AVQA and AVQA-Yang datasets show that SaSR-Net outperforms state-of-the-art AVQA methods. We will release our source code and pre-trained models."}
{"Title": "Grounding Partially-Defined Events in Multimodal Data", "Abstract": "How are we able to learn about complex current events just from short snippets of video? While natural language enables straightforward ways to represent under-specified, partially observable events, visual data does not facilitate analogous methods and, consequently, introduces unique challenges in event understanding. With the growing prevalence of vision-capable AI agents, these systems must be able to model events from collections of unstructured video data. To tackle robust event modeling in multimodal settings, we introduce a multimodal formulation for partially-defined events and cast the extraction of these events as a three-stage span retrieval task. We propose a corresponding benchmark for this task, MultiVENT-G, that consists of 14.5 hours of densely annotated current event videos and 1,168 text documents, containing 22.8K labeled event-centric entities. We propose a collection of LLM-driven approaches to the task of multimodal event analysis, and evaluate them on MultiVENT-G. Results illustrate the challenges that abstract event understanding poses and demonstrates promise in event-centric video-language systems."}
{"Title": "How Does Quantization Affect Multilingual LLMs?", "Abstract": "Quantization techniques are widely used to improve inference speed and deployment of large language models. While a wide body of work examines the impact of quantization on LLMs in English, none have evaluated across languages. We conduct a thorough analysis of quantized multilingual LLMs, focusing on performance across languages and at varying scales. We use automatic benchmarks, LLM-as-a-Judge, and human evaluation, finding that (1) harmful effects of quantization are apparent in human evaluation, which automatic metrics severely underestimate: a 1.7{\\%} average drop in Japanese across automatic tasks corresponds to a 16.0{\\%} drop reported by human evaluators on realistic prompts; (2) languages are disparately affected by quantization, with non-Latin script languages impacted worst; and (3) challenging tasks like mathematical reasoning degrade fastest. As the ability to serve low-compute models is critical for wide global adoption of NLP technologies, our results urge consideration of multilingual performance as a key evaluation criterion for efficient models."}
{"Title": "Presentations are not always linear! GNN meets LLM for Text Document-to-Presentation Transformation with Attribution", "Abstract": "Automatically generating a presentation from the text of a long document is a challenging and useful problem. In contrast to a flat summary, a presentation needs to have a better and non-linear narrative, i.e., the content of a slide can come from different and non-contiguous parts of the given document. However, it is difficult to incorporate such non-linear mapping of content to slides and ensure that the content is faithful to the document. LLMs are prone to hallucination and their performance degrades with the length of the input document. Towards this, we propose a novel graph based solution where we learn a graph from the input document and use a combination of graph neural network and LLM to generate a presentation with attribution of content for each slide. We conduct thorough experiments to show the merit of our approach compared to directly using LLMs for this task."}
{"Title": "Domain Adaptation via Prompt Learning for Alzheimer's Detection", "Abstract": "Spoken language presents a compelling medium for non-invasive Alzheimer{'}s disease (AD) screening, and prior work has examined the use of fine-tuned pretrained language models (PLMs) for this purpose. However, PLMs are often optimized on tasks that are inconsistent with AD classification. Spoken language corpora for AD detection are also small and disparate, making generalizability difficult. This paper investigates the use of domain-adaptive prompt fine-tuning for AD detection, using AD classification loss as the training objective and leveraging spoken language corpora from a variety of language tasks. Extensive experiments using voting-based combinations of different prompting paradigms show an impressive mean detection F1=0.8952 (with std=0.01 and best F1=0.9130) for the highest-performing approach when using BERT as the base PLM."}
{"Title": "SPINACH: SPARQL-Based Information Navigation for Challenging Real-World Questions", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have led to significant improvements in the Knowledge Base Question Answering (KBQA) task. However, datasets used in KBQA studies do not capture the true complexity of KBQA tasks. They either have simple questions, use synthetically generated logical forms, or are based on small knowledge base (KB) schemas.We introduce the SPINACH dataset, an expert-annotated KBQA dataset collected from discussions on Wikidata{'}s {``}Request a Query{''} forum with 320 decontextualized question-SPARQL pairs. The complexity of these in-the-wild queries calls for a KBQA system that can dynamically explore large and often incomplete schemas and reason about them, as it is infeasible to create a comprehensive training dataset. We also introduce an in-context learning KBQA agent, also called SPINACH, that mimics how a human expert would write SPARQLs to handle challenging questions. SPINACH achieves a new state of the art on the QALD-7, QALD-9 Plus and QALD-10 datasets by 31.0{\\%}, 27.0{\\%}, and 10.0{\\%} in $F_1$, respectively, and coming within 1.6{\\%} of the fine-tuned LLaMA SOTA model on WikiWebQuestions.On our new SPINACH dataset, the SPINACH agent outperforms all baselines, including the best GPT-4-based KBQA agent, by at least 38.1{\\%} in $F_1$."}
{"Title": "Navigating Noisy Feedback: Enhancing Reinforcement Learning with Error-Prone Language Models", "Abstract": "The correct specification of reward models is a well-known challenge in reinforcement learning.Hand-crafted reward functions often lead to inefficient or suboptimal policies and may not be aligned with user values.Reinforcement learning from human feedback is a successful technique that can mitigate such issues, however, the collection of human feedback can be laborious.Recent works have solicited feedback from pre-trained large language models rather than humans to reduce or eliminate human effort, however, these approaches yield poor performance in the presence of hallucination and other errors.This paper studies the advantages and limitations of reinforcement learning from large language model feedback and proposes a simple yet effective method for soliciting and applying feedback as a potential-based shaping function.We theoretically show that inconsistent rankings {--} which approximate ranking errors {--} lead to uninformative rewards with our approach. Our method empirically improves convergence speed and policy returns over commonly used baselines even with significant ranking errors, and eliminates the need for complex post-processing of reward functions."}
{"Title": "On the Limited Generalization Capability of the Implicit Reward Model Induced by Direct Preference Optimization", "Abstract": "Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) is an effective approach for aligning language models to human preferences. Central to RLHF is learning a reward function for scoring human preferences. Two main approaches for learning a reward model are 1) training an EXplicit Reward Model (EXRM) as in RLHF, and 2) using an implicit reward learned from preference data through methods such as Direct Preference Optimization (DPO). Prior work has shown that the implicit reward model of DPO (denoted as DPORM) can approximate an EXRM on the limit infinite samples. However, it is unclear how effective is DPORM in practice. DPORM{'}s effectiveness directly implies the optimality of learned policy of DPO and also has practical implication for more advanced alignment methods, such as iterative DPO. We compare the accuracy at distinguishing preferred and rejected answers using both DPORM and EXRM. Our findings indicate that even though DPORM can fit the training dataset, it generalizes less effective than EXRM, especially when the validation datasets contain distributional shifts. Across five out-of-distribution settings, DPORM has a mean drop in accuracy of 3{\\%} and a maximum drop of 7{\\%}. These findings highlight that DPORM has limited generalization ability and substantiates the integration of an explicit reward model in iterative DPO approaches."}
{"Title": "Gazelle: An Instruction Dataset for Arabic Writing Assistance", "Abstract": "Writing has long been considered a hallmark of human intelligence and remains a pinnacle task for artificial intelligence (AI) due to the intricate cognitive processes involved. Recently, rapid advancements in generative AI, particularly through the development of Large Language Models (LLMs), have significantly transformed the landscape of writing assistance. However, underrepresented languages like Arabic encounter significant challenges in the development of advanced AI writing tools, largely due to the limited availability of data. This scarcity constrains the training of effective models, impeding the creation of sophisticated writing assistance technologies. To address these issues, we present *Gazelle*, a comprehensive dataset for Arabic writing assistance. In addition, we offer an evaluation framework designed to enhance Arabic writing assistance tools. Our human evaluation of leading LLMs, including GPT-**4**, GPT-**4o**, Cohere Command R+, and Gemini **1.5** Pro, highlights their respective strengths and limitations in addressing the challenges of Arabic writing. Our findings underscore the need for continuous model training and dataset enrichment to manage the complexities of Arabic language processing, paving the way for more effective AI-powered Arabic writing tools"}
{"Title": "Extrinsic Evaluation of Cultural Competence in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Productive interactions between diverse users and language technologies require outputs from the latter to be culturally relevant and sensitive. Prior works have evaluated models{'} knowledge of cultural norms, values, and artefacts, without considering how this knowledge manifests in downstream applications. In this work, we focus on extrinsic evaluation of cultural competence in two text generation tasks, open-ended question answering and story generation. We quantitatively and qualitatively evaluate model outputs when an explicit cue of culture, specifically nationality, is perturbed in the prompts. Although we find that model outputs do vary when varying nationalities and feature culturally relevant words, we also find weak correlations between text similarity of outputs for different countries and the cultural values of these countries. Finally, we discuss important considerations in designing comprehensive evaluation of cultural competence in user-facing tasks."}
{"Title": "BLASER 2.0: a metric for evaluation and quality estimation of massively multilingual speech and text translation", "Abstract": "We present BLASER 2.0, an automatic metric of machine translation quality which supports both speech and text modalities. Compared to its predecessor BLASER (Chen et al., 2023), BLASER 2.0 is based on better underlying text and speech representations that cover 202 text languages and 57 speech ones and extends the training data. BLASER 2.0 comes in two varieties: a reference-based and a reference-free (quality estimation) model. We demonstrate that the reference-free version is applicable not only at the dataset level, for evaluating the overall model performance, but also at the sentence level, for scoring individual translations. In particular, we show its applicability for detecting translation hallucinations and filtering training datasets to obtain more reliable translation models. The BLASER 2.0 models are publicly available at https://github.com/facebookresearch/sonar."}
{"Title": "Multi-label Sequential Sentence Classification via Large Language Model", "Abstract": "Sequential sentence classification (SSC) in scientific publications is crucial for supporting downstream tasks such as fine-grained information retrieval and extractive summarization. However, current SSC methods are constrained by model size, sequence length, and single-label setting. To address these limitations, this paper proposes LLM-SSC, a large language model (LLM)-based framework for both single- and multi-label SSC tasks. Unlike previous approaches that employ small- or medium-sized language models, the proposed framework utilizes LLMs to generate SSC labels through designed prompts, which enhance task understanding by incorporating demonstrations and a query to describe the prediction target. We also present a multi-label contrastive learning loss with auto-weighting scheme, enabling the multi-label classification task. To support our multi-label SSC analysis, we introduce and release a new dataset, biorc800, which mainly contains unstructured abstracts in the biomedical domain with manual annotations. Experiments demonstrate LLM-SSC{'}s strong performance in SSC under both in-context learning and task-specific tuning settings. We release biorc800 and our code at: https://github.com/ScienceNLP-Lab/LLM-SSC."}
{"Title": "Multi-trait User Simulation with Adaptive Decoding for Conversational Task Assistants", "Abstract": "Conversational systems must be robust to user interactions that naturally exhibit diverse conversational traits. Capturing and simulating these diverse traits coherently and efficiently presents a complex challenge. This paper introduces Multi-Trait Adaptive Decoding (mTAD), a method that generates diverse user profiles at decoding-time by sampling from various trait-specific Language Models (LMs). mTAD provides an adaptive and scalable approach to user simulation, enabling the creation of multiple user profiles without the need for additional fine-tuning. By analyzing real-world dialogues from the Conversational Task Assistant (CTA) domain, we identify key conversational traits and developed a framework to generate profile-aware dialogues that enhance conversational diversity. Experimental results validate the effectiveness of our approach in modeling single-traits using specialized LMs, which can capture less common patterns, even in out-of-domain tasks. Furthermore, the results demonstrate that mTAD is a robust and flexible framework for combining diverse user simulators."}
{"Title": "VarBench: Robust Language Model Benchmarking Through Dynamic Variable Perturbation", "Abstract": "As large language models achieve impressive scores on traditional benchmarks, an increasing number of researchers are becoming concerned about benchmark data leakage during pre-training, commonly known as the data contamination problem. To ensure fair evaluation, recent benchmarks release only the training and validation sets, keeping the test set labels closed-source. They require anyone wishing to evaluate his language model to submit the model{'}s predictions for centralized processing and then publish the model{'}s result on their leaderboard. However, this submission process is inefficient and prevents effective error analysis. To address this issue, we propose to variabilize benchmarks and evaluate language models dynamically. Specifically, we extract variables from each test case and define a value range for each variable. For each evaluation, we sample new values from these value ranges to create unique test cases, thus ensuring a fresh evaluation each time. We applied this variable perturbation method to four datasets: GSM8K, ARC, CommonsenseQA, and TruthfulQA, which cover mathematical generation and multiple-choice tasks. Our experimental results demonstrate that this approach provides a more accurate assessment of the true capabilities of language models, effectively mitigating the contamination problem."}
{"Title": "Gloss2Text: Sign Language Gloss translation using LLMs and Semantically Aware Label Smoothing", "Abstract": "Sign language translation from video to spoken text presents unique challenges owing to the distinct grammar, expression nuances, and high variation of visual appearance across different speakers and contexts. Gloss annotations serve as an intermediary to guide the translation process. In our work, we focus on \\textit{Gloss2Text} translation stage and propose several advances by leveraging pre-trained large language models (LLMs), data augmentation, and novel label-smoothing loss function exploiting gloss translation ambiguities improving significantly the performance of state-of-the-art approaches. Through extensive experiments and ablation studies on the PHOENIX Weather 2014T dataset, our approach surpasses state-of-the-art performance in \\textit{Gloss2Text} translation, indicating its efficacy in addressing sign language translation and suggesting promising avenues for future research and development."}
{"Title": "Structured Chain-of-Thought Prompting for Few-Shot Generation of Content-Grounded QA Conversations", "Abstract": "We introduce a structured chain-of-thought (SCoT) prompting approach to generating content-grounded multi-turn question-answer conversations with a pre-trained large language model (LLM). At the core of our proposal is a structured breakdown of the complex task into a number of states in a state machine, so that actions corresponding to various subtasks, e.g., content reading and utterance generation, can be executed in their own dedicated states. Each state leverages a unique set of resources, including prompts and (optionally) additional tools, to augment the generation process. Automatic evaluation shows that SCoT prompting with designated states for hallucination mitigation can increase agent faithfulness to grounding documents by up to 16.8{\\%}. When used as training data, our open-domain conversations synthesized from only 6 Wikipedia-based seed demonstrations train strong conversational QA agents. In out-of-domain evaluation, for example, we observe improvements of up to 13.9{\\%} in F1-score against ground truth over target domain gold data when the latter is augmented with our generated examples."}
{"Title": "Gradient Localization Improves Lifelong Pretraining of Language Models", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) trained on web-scale text corpora have been shown to capture world knowledge in their parameters. However, the mechanism by which language models store different types of knowledge is poorly understood. In this work, we examine two types of knowledge relating to temporally sensitive entities and demonstrate that each type is localized to different sets of parameters within the LLMs. We hypothesize that the lack of consideration of the locality of knowledge in existing continual learning methods contributes to both: the failed uptake of new information, and catastrophic forgetting of previously learned information. We observe that sequences containing references to updated and newly mentioned entities exhibit larger gradient norms in a subset of layers. We demonstrate that targeting parameter updates to these relevant layers can improve the performance of continually pretraining on language containing temporal drift."}
{"Title": "PFA-ERC: Psuedo-Future Augmented Dynamic Emotion Recognition in Conversations", "Abstract": "AI systems{'} ability to interpret human emotions and adapt to variations is becoming more crucial as AI gets embedded into everyone{'}s daily lives. Emotion Recognition in Conversations (ERC) is based on this fundamental challenge. Current state-of-the-art technologies in ERC are limited due to the need for future information. We introduce High-Dimensional Temporal Fusion Transformer (HiTFT), a time-series forecasting transformer that predicts pseudo-future information to overcome this constraint. This retains the models{'} dynamic nature and provides future information more efficiently than other methods. Our proposed method combines pseudo future embeddings with an encoder that models the speaker{'}s emotional state using past and pseudo-future information as well as inter and intra speaker interactions; these speaker states are then passed through a decoder block that predicts the inferred emotion of that utterance. We further evaluate our method and show that it achieves state of the art performance on three ERC datasets - MELD, EmoryNLP, and IEMOCap."}
{"Title": "Textless Speech-to-Speech Translation With Limited Parallel Data", "Abstract": "Existing speech-to-speech translation (S2ST) models fall into two camps: they either leverage text as an intermediate step or require hundreds of hours of parallel speech data. Both approaches are incompatible with textless languages or language pairs with limited parallel data. We present PFB, a framework for training textless S2ST models that require just dozens of hours of parallel speech data. We first pretrain a model on large-scale monolingual speech data, finetune it with a small amount of parallel speech data (20-60 hours), and lastly train with an unsupervised backtranslation objective. We train and evaluate our models for English-to-German, German-to-English and Marathi-to-English translation on three different domains (European Parliament, Common Voice, and All India Radio) with single-speaker synthesized speech. Evaluated using the ASR-BLEU metric, our models achieve reasonable performance on all three domains, with some being within 1-2 points of our higher-resourced topline."}
{"Title": "The Overlooked Repetitive Lengthening Form in Sentiment Analysis", "Abstract": "Individuals engaging in online communication frequently express personal opinions with informal styles (e.g., memes and emojis). While Language Models (LMs) with informal communications have been widely discussed, a unique and emphatic style, the Repetitive Lengthening Form (RLF), has been overlooked for years. In this paper, we explore answers to two research questions: 1) Is RLF important for SA? 2) Can LMs understand RLF? Inspired by previous linguistic research, we curate **Lengthening**, the first multi-domain dataset with 850k samples focused on RLF for sentiment analysis. Moreover, we introduce **Explnstruct**, a two-stage Explainable Instruction Tuning framework aimed at improving both the performance and explainability of LLMs for RLF. We further propose a novel unified approach to quantify LMs{'} understanding of informal expressions. We show that RLF sentences are expressive expressions and can serve as signatures of document-level sentiment. Additionally, RLF has potential value for online content analysis. Our comprehensive results show that fine-tuned Pre-trained Language Models (PLMs) can surpass zero-shot GPT-4 in performance but not in explanation for RLF. Finally, we show ExpInstruct can improve the open-sourced LLMs to match zero-shot GPT-4 in performance and explainability for RLF with limited samples. Code and sample data are available at https://github.com/Tom-Owl/OverlookedRLF"}
{"Title": "Remember This Event That Year? Assessing Temporal Information and Understanding in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly ubiquitous, yet their ability to retain and reason about temporal information remains limited, hindering their application in real-world scenarios where understanding the sequential nature of events is crucial. Our study experiments with 12 state-of-the-art models (ranging from 2B to 70B+ parameters) on a novel numerical-temporal dataset, TempUN, spanning from 10,000 BCE to 2100 CE, to uncover significant temporal retention and comprehension limitations. We propose six metrics to assess three learning paradigms to enhance temporal knowledge acquisition. Our findings reveal that open-source models exhibit knowledge gaps more frequently, suggesting a trade-off between limited knowledge and incorrect responses. Additionally, various fine-tuning approaches significantly improved performance, reducing incorrect outputs and impacting the identification of {`}information not available{'} in the generations. The associated dataset and code are available at the [URL](https://anonymous.4open.science/r/TempUN-ARR/)."}
{"Title": "Hop, skip, jump to Convergence: Dynamics of Learning Rate Transitions for Improved Training of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Various types of learning rate (LR) schedulers are being used for training or fine tuning of Large Language Models today. In practice, several mid-flight changes are required in the LR schedule either manually, or with careful choices around warmup steps, peak LR, type of decay and restarts. To study this further, we consider the effect of switching the learning rate at a predetermined time during training, which we refer to as {``}SkipLR{''}. We model SGD as a stochastic gradient flow and show that when starting from the same initial parameters, switching the learning rate causes the loss curves to contract towards each other. We demonstrate this theoretically for some simple cases, and empirically on large language models. Our analysis provides insight into how learning rate schedules affect the training dynamics, and could inform the design of new schedules to accelerate convergence."}
{"Title": "FactAlign: Long-form Factuality Alignment of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models have demonstrated significant potential as the next-generation information access engines. However, their reliability is hindered by issues of hallucination and generating non-factual content. This is particularly problematic in long-form responses, where assessing and ensuring factual accuracy is complex. In this paper, we address this gap by proposing FactAlign, a novel alignment framework designed to enhance the factuality of LLMs{'} long-form responses while maintaining their helpfulness. We introduce fKTO, a fine-grained, sentence-level alignment algorithm that extends the Kahneman-Tversky Optimization (KTO) alignment method. Leveraging recent advances in automatic factuality evaluation, FactAlign utilizes fine-grained factuality assessments to guide the alignment process. Our experiments on open-domain prompts and information-seeking questions demonstrate that FactAlign significantly improves the factual accuracy of LLM responses while also improving their helpfulness. Further analyses identify that FactAlign is capable of training LLMs to provide more information without losing factual precision, thus improving the factual F1 score. Our source code, datasets, and trained models are publicly available at https://github.com/MiuLab/FactAlign"}
{"Title": "HyperLoRA: Efficient Cross-task Generalization via Constrained Low-Rank Adapters Generation", "Abstract": "Adapting pre-trained language models (PLMs) for cross-task generalization is a crucial research area within the field of NLP. While fine-tuning and in-context learning are effective approaches for adapting LMs to emerging tasks, they can be costly and inefficient. Recently, some researchers have focused on achieving efficient task adaptation via hypernetwork, which is a meta network that generates task-specific weights based on task-oriented information without any optimization. However, the training of hypernetworks often lacks stability since the optimization signal is not straightforward, and the task information is not adequately representative. Moreover, previous works train hypenetworks with the general corpus, which is struggling with few-shot adaptation. To address these issues, we introduce HyperLoRA, a hypernetwork for LoRA parameters generation involving hypernetwork pre-training on instruction-following data and generalization fine-tuning on sparse task data. Furthermore, we utilize a constrained training loss and a gradient-based demonstration selection strategy to enhance the training stability and performance. Experimental results and analysis across four benchmark datasets (P3, S-NI, BBH, and SuperGLUE) demonstrate the proposed approach has flexible generalization ability and superior performance."}
{"Title": "Inference and Verbalization Functions During In-Context Learning", "Abstract": "Large language models (LMs) are capable of in-context learning from a few demonstrations (example-label pairs) to solve new tasks during inference. Despite the intuitive importance of high-quality demonstrations, previous work has observed that, in some settings, ICL performance is minimally affected by irrelevant labels (Min et al., 2022). We hypothesize that LMs perform ICL with irrelevant labels via two sequential processes: an inference function that solves the task, followed by a verbalization function that maps the inferred answer to the label space. Importantly, we hypothesize that the inference function is invariant to remappings of the label space (e.g., {``}true{''}/{``}false{''} to {``}cat{''}/{``}dog{''}), enabling LMs to share the same inference function across settings with different label words. We empirically validate this hypothesis with controlled layer-wise interchange intervention experiments. Our findings confirm the hypotheses on multiple datasets and tasks (natural language inference, sentiment analysis, and topic classification) and further suggest that the two functions can be localized in specific layers across various open-sourced models, including GEMMA-7B, MISTRAL-7B-V0.3, GEMMA-2-27B, and LLAMA-3.1-70B."}
{"Title": "Debate as Optimization: Adaptive Conformal Prediction and Diverse Retrieval for Event Extraction", "Abstract": "We propose a multi-agent debate as optimization (DAO) system for event extraction, where the primary objective is to iteratively refine the large language models (LLMs) outputs through debating without parameter tuning. In DAO, we introduce two novel modules: the Diverse-RAG (DRAG) module and the Adaptive Conformal Prediction (AdaCP) module. DRAG systematically retrieves supporting information that best fits the debate discussion, while AdaCP enhances the accuracy and reliability of event extraction by effectively rejecting less promising answers. Experimental results demonstrate a significant reduction in the performance gap between supervised approaches and tuning-free LLM-based methods by 18.1{\\%} and 17.8{\\%} on ACE05 and 17.9{\\%} and 15.2{\\%} on CASIE for event detection and argument extraction respectively."}
{"Title": "MiRAGeNews: Multimodal Realistic AI-Generated News Detection", "Abstract": "The proliferation of inflammatory or misleading {``}fake{''} news content has become increasingly common in recent years. Simultaneously, it has become easier than ever to use AI tools to generate photorealistic images depicting any scene imaginable. Combining these two{---}AI-generated fake news content{---}is particularly potent and dangerous. To combat the spread of AI-generated fake news, we propose the MiRAGeNews Dataset, a dataset of 12,500 high-quality real and AI-generated image-caption pairs from state-of-the-art generators. We find that our dataset poses a significant challenge to humans (60{\\%} F-1) and state-of-the-art multi-modal LLMs ({\\textless} 24{\\%} F-1). Using our dataset we train a multi-modal detector (MiRAGe) that improves by +5.1{\\%} F-1 over state-of-the-art baselines on image-caption pairs from out-of-domain image generators and news publishers. We release our code and data to aid future work on detecting AI-generated content."}
{"Title": "Quantifying and Mitigating Unimodal Biases in Multimodal Large Language Models: A Causal Perspective", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have facilitated the development of Multimodal LLMs (MLLMs). Despite their impressive capabilities, MLLMs often suffer from over-reliance on unimodal biases (e.g., language bias and vision bias), leading to incorrect answers in complex multimodal tasks. To investigate this issue, we propose a causal framework to interpret the biases in Visual Question Answering (VQA) problems. Within this framework, we conduct an in-depth causal analysis to assess the causal effect of these biases on MLLM predictions. Based on the analysis, we introduce 1) a novel MORE dataset with 12,000 challenging VQA instances requiring multi-hop reasoning and overcoming unimodal biases. 2) a causality-enhanced agent framework CAVE that guides models to comprehensively integrate information from different modalities and mitigate biases. Our experiments show that MLLMs perform poorly on MORE, indicating strong unimodal biases and limited semantic understanding. However, when integrated with our CAVE, promising improvements in reasoning and bias mitigation can be seen. These findings provide important insights for the development of more robust MLLMs and contribute to the broader goal of advancing multimodal AI systems capable of deeper understanding and reasoning. Our project page is at https://github.com/OpenCausaLab/MORE."}
{"Title": "Large Language Models are In-context Teachers for Knowledge Reasoning", "Abstract": "In this work, we study in-context teaching(ICT), where a teacher provides in-context example rationales to teach a student to reasonover unseen cases. Human teachers are usually required to craft in-context demonstrations, which are costly and have high variance. We ask whether a large language model (LLM) can serve as a more effective in-context teacher for itself or otherLLMs, compared to humans. Inspired by the Encoding Specificity Hypothesis from human episodic memory, we hypothesize thatin-context exemplars crafted by the teacher should match the training data of the student. This hypothesis motivates us to propose Self-Explain where an LLM{'}s self-elicited explanations are used as in-context demonstrations for prompting it as they are generalized fromthe model{'}s training examples. Self-Explain is shown to significantly outperform using human-crafted exemplars and other baselines.Furthermore, we reveal that for ICT, rationales from different teacher LLMs or human experts that more resemble the student LLM{'}s self-explanations are better in-context demonstrations. This supports our encoding specificity hypothesis. We then propose Teach-Back that aligns a teacher LLM with the student to enhance the ICT performance. For example, Teach-Back enables a 7B model to teach the much larger GPT-3.5 in context, surpassing human teachers by around 5{\\%} in test accuracy on medical question answering."}
{"Title": "SocialGaze: Improving the Integration of Human Social Norms in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "While much research has explored enhancing the reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs) in the last few years, there is a gap in understanding the alignment of these models with social values and norms. We introduce the task of judging social acceptance. Social acceptance requires models to judge and rationalize the acceptability of people{'}s actions in social situations. For example, is it socially acceptable for a neighbor to ask others in the community to keep their pets indoors at night? We find that LLMs{'} understanding of social acceptance is often misaligned with human consensus. To alleviate this, we introduce SocialGaze, a multi-step prompting framework, in which a language model verbalizes a social situation from multiple perspectives before forming a judgment. Our experiments demonstrate that the SocialGaze approach improves the alignment with human judgments by up to 11 F1 points with the GPT-3.5 model. We also identify biases and correlations in LLMs in assigning blame that is related to features such as the gender (males are significantly more likely to be judged unfairly) and age (LLMs are more aligned with humans for older narrators)."}
{"Title": "Narrative-of-Thought: Improving Temporal Reasoning of Large Language Models via Recounted Narratives", "Abstract": "Reasoning about time and temporal relations is an integral aspect of human cognition, essential for perceiving the world and navigating our experiences. Though large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive performance in many reasoning tasks, temporal reasoning remains challenging due to its intrinsic complexity. In this work, we first study an essential task of temporal reasoning{---}temporal graph generation, to unveil LLMs{'} inherent, global reasoning capabilities. We show that this task presents great challenges even for the most powerful LLMs, such as GPT-3.5/4. We also notice a significant performance gap by small models ({\\textless} 10B) that lag behind LLMs by 50{\\%}. Next, we study how to close this gap with a budget constraint, e.g., not using model finetuning. We propose a new prompting technique tailored for temporal reasoning, Narrative-of-Thought (NoT), that first converts the events set to a Python class, then prompts a small model to generate a temporally grounded narrative, guiding the final generation of a temporal graph. Extensive experiments showcase the efficacy of NoT in improving various metrics. Notably, NoT attains the highest F1 on the Schema-11 evaluation set, while securing an overall F1 on par with GPT-3.5. NoT also achieves the best structural similarity across the board, even compared with GPT-3.5/4."}
{"Title": "Auto-Intent: Automated Intent Discovery and Self-Exploration for Large Language Model Web Agents", "Abstract": "In this paper, we introduce Auto-Intent, a method to adapt a pre-trained large language model (LLM) as an agent for a target domain without direct fine-tuning, where we empirically focus on web navigation tasks. Our approach first discovers the underlying intents from target domain demonstrations unsupervisedly, in a highly compact form (up to three words). With the extracted intents, we train our intent predictor to predict the next intent given the agent{'}s past observations and actions. In particular, we propose a self-exploration approach where top-k probable intent predictions are provided as a hint to the pre-trained LLM agent, which leads to enhanced decision-making capabilities. Auto-Intent substantially improves the performance of GPT-3.5, 4 and Llama-3.1-70B, 405B agents on the large-scale real-website navigation benchmarks from Mind2Web and online navigation tasks from WebArena with its cross-benchmark generalization from Mind2Web."}
{"Title": "See Detail Say Clear: Towards Brain CT Report Generation via Pathological Clue-driven Representation Learning", "Abstract": "Brain CT report generation is significant to aid physicians in diagnosing cranial diseases.Recent studies concentrate on handling the consistency between visual and textual pathological features to improve the coherence of report.However, there exist some challenges: 1) Redundant visual representing: Massive irrelevant areas in 3D scans distract models from representing salient visual contexts.2) Shifted semantic representing: Limited medical corpus causes difficulties for models to transfer the learned textual representations to generative layers. This study introduces a Pathological Clue-driven Representation Learning (PCRL) model to build cross-modal representations based on pathological clues and naturally adapt them for accurate report generation.Specifically, we construct pathological clues from perspectives of segmented regions, pathological entities, and report themes, to fully grasp visual pathological patterns and learn cross-modal feature representations. To adapt the representations for the text generation task, we bridge the gap between representation learning and report generation by using a unified large language model (LLM) with task-tailored instructions. These crafted instructions enable the LLM to be flexibly fine-tuned across tasks and smoothly transfer the semantic representation for report generation.Experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms previous methods and achieves SoTA performance.Our code is available at https://github.com/Chauncey-Jheng/PCRL-MRG."}
{"Title": "P-FOLIO: Evaluating and Improving Logical Reasoning with Abundant Human-Written Reasoning Chains", "Abstract": "Existing methods on understanding the capabilities of LLMs in logical reasoning rely on binary entailment classification or synthetically derived rationales, which are not sufficient for properly assessing model{'}s capabilities. We present \\textit{P-FOLIO}, a human-annotated dataset consisting of diverse and complex reasoning chains for a set of realistic logical reasoning stories also written by humans. P-FOLIO is collected with an annotation protocol that facilitates humans to annotate well-structured natural language proofs for first-order logic reasoning problems in a step-by-step manner. The number of reasoning steps in P-FOLIO span from 0 to 20. We further use P-FOLIO to evaluate and improve large-language-model (LLM) reasoning capabilities. We evaluate LLM reasoning capabilities at a fine granularity via single-step inference rule classification, with more diverse inference rules of more diverse and higher levels of complexities than previous works. Given that a single model-generated reasoning chain could take a completely different path than the human-annotated one, we sample multiple reasoning chains from a model and use pass@k metrics for evaluating the quality of model-generated reasoning chains. We show that human-written reasoning chains significantly boost the logical reasoning capabilities of LLMs via many-shot prompting and fine-tuning. Furthermore, fine-tuning Llam3-7B on P-FOLIO improves the model performance by 10{\\%} or more on three other out-of-domain logical reasoning datasets."}
{"Title": "TRIP NEGOTIATOR: A Travel Persona-aware Reinforced Dialogue Generation Model for Personalized Integrative Negotiation in Tourism", "Abstract": "A sophisticated negotiation dialogue system for tourism should engage in negotiations beyond mere price considerations, encompassing various other aspects and amenities inherent in the tourism package. To ensure such tailored interaction, it is imperative to understand the intricacies of traveler preferences, constraints, and expectations. Incorporating these personality facets allows for customizing negotiation strategies, resulting in a more personalized and integrative experience. With this aim, we take a pivotal step in advancing automated dialogue systems for personalized integrative negotiation tasks. We develop DEAL, a pioneering Dialogue datasEt for personALized integrative negotiation task in the tourism domain. Further, we propose TRIP NEGOTIATOR, a novel Travel persona-aware Reinforced dIalogue generation model for Personalized iNtegrative nEGOTIATion within the tOuRism domain. TRIP NEGOTIATOR is built to discern the traveler{'}s persona and intent, systematically adjusts negotiation strategies, and directs the negotiation toward a pertinent phase to ensure effective negotiation. Through reinforcement learning with Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO), we guide TRIP NEGOTIATOR to generate coherent and diverse responses consistent with the traveler{'}s personality. Extensive qualitative and quantitative analyses demonstrate the effectiveness of TRIP NEGOTIATOR in generating personalized responses during negotiation."}
{"Title": "Chain of Condition: Construct, Verify and Solve Conditions for Conditional Question Answering", "Abstract": "Conditional question answering (CQA) is an important task that aims to find probable answers and identify missing conditions. Existing approaches struggle with CQA due to two challenges: (1) precisely identifying necessary conditions and the logical relationship, and (2) verifying conditions to detect any that are missing. In this paper, we propose a novel prompting approach, Chain of condition, by first identifying all conditions and constructing their logical relationships explicitly according to the document, then verifying whether these conditions are satisfied, finally solving the logical expression to indicate any missing conditions and generating the answer accordingly. Experiments on two CQA benchmark datasets show our chain of condition outperforms existing prompting baselines, establishing a new state of the art. Furthermore, with only a few examples, our method can facilitate GPT-3.5-Turbo or GPT-4 to outperform all existing supervised models."}
{"Title": "Two Tales of Persona in LLMs: A Survey of Role-Playing and Personalization", "Abstract": "The concept of *persona*, originally adopted in dialogue literature, has re-surged as a promising framework for tailoring large language models (LLMs) to specific context (*e.g.*, personalized search, LLM-as-a-judge). However, the growing research on leveraging persona in LLMs is relatively disorganized and lacks a systematic taxonomy. To close the gap, we present a comprehensive survey to categorize the current state of the field. We identify two lines of research, namely (1) *LLM Role-Playing*, where personas are assigned to LLMs, and (2) *LLM Personalization*, where LLMs take care of user personas. Additionally, we introduce existing methods for LLM personality evaluation. To the best of our knowledge, we present the first survey for role-playing and personalization in LLMs under the unified view of persona. We continuously maintain a paper collection to foster future endeavors."}
{"Title": "ToxiCraft: A Novel Framework for Synthetic Generation of Harmful Information", "Abstract": "In different NLP tasks, detecting harmful content is crucial for online environments, especially with the growing influence of social media. However, previous research has two main issues: 1) a lack of data in low-resource settings, and 2) inconsistent definitions and criteria for judging harmful content, requiring classification models to be robust to spurious features and diverse. We propose Toxicraft, a novel framework for synthesizing datasets of harmful information to address these weaknesses. With only a small amount of seed data, our framework can generate a wide variety of synthetic, yet remarkably realistic, examples of toxic information. Experimentation across various datasets showcases a notable enhancement in detection model robustness and adaptability, surpassing or close to the gold labels."}
{"Title": "Look Who's Talking Now: Covert Channels From Biased LLMs", "Abstract": "Large language model-based steganography encodes hidden messages into model-generated tokens. The key tradeoff is between how much hidden information can be introduced and how much the model can be perturbed. To address this tradeoff, we show how to adapt strategies previously used for LLM watermarking to encode large amounts of information. We tackle the practical (but difficult) setting where we do not have access to the full model when trying to recover the hidden information. Theoretically, we study the fundamental limits in how much steganographic information can be inserted into LLM-created outputs. We provide practical encoding schemes and present experimental results showing that our proposed strategies are nearly optimal."}
{"Title": "ValueScope: Unveiling Implicit Norms and Values via Return Potential Model of Social Interactions", "Abstract": "This study introduces ValueScope, a framework leveraging language models to quantify social norms and values within online communities, grounded in social science perspectives on normative structures. We employ ValueScope to dissect and analyze linguistic and stylistic expressions across 13 Reddit communities categorized under gender, politics, science, and finance. Our analysis provides a quantitative foundation confirming that even closely related communities exhibit remarkably diverse norms. This diversity supports existing theories and adds a new dimension to understanding community interactions. ValueScope not only delineates differences in social norms but also effectively tracks their evolution and the influence of significant external events like the U.S. presidential elections and the emergence of new sub-communities. The framework thus highlights the pivotal role of social norms in shaping online interactions, presenting a substantial advance in both the theory and application of social norm studies in digital spaces."}
{"Title": "Unraveling the Truth: Do VLMs really Understand Charts? A Deep Dive into Consistency and Robustness", "Abstract": "Chart question answering (CQA) is a crucial area of Visual Language Understanding. However, the robustness and consistency of current Visual Language Models (VLMs) in this field remain under-explored. This paper evaluates state-of-the-art VLMs on comprehensive datasets, developed specifically for this study, encompassing diverse question categories and chart formats. We investigate two key aspects: 1) the models{'} ability to handle varying levels of chart and question complexity, and 2) their robustness across different visual representations of the same underlying data. Our analysis reveals significant performance variations based on question and chart types, highlighting both strengths and weaknesses of current models. Additionally, we identify areas for improvement and propose future research directions to build more robust and reliable CQA systems. This study sheds light on the limitations of current models and paves the way for future advancements in the field."}
{"Title": "Fine-Tuning Language Models on Multiple Datasets for Citation Intention Classification", "Abstract": "Citation intention Classification (CIC) tools classify citations by their intention (e.g., background, motivation) and assist readers in evaluating the contribution of scientific literature. Prior research has shown that pretrained language models (PLMs) such as SciBERT can achieve state-of-the-art performance on CIC benchmarks. PLMs are trained via self-supervision tasks on a large corpus of general text and can quickly adapt to CIC tasks via moderate fine-tuning on the corresponding dataset. Despite their advantages, PLMs can easily overfit small datasets during fine-tuning. In this paper, we propose a multi-task learning (MTL) framework that jointly fine-tunes PLMs on a dataset of primary interest together with multiple auxiliary CIC datasets to take advantage of additional supervision signals. We develop a data-driven task relation learning (TRL) method that controls the contribution of auxiliary datasets to avoid negative transfer and expensive hyper-parameter tuning. We conduct experiments on three CIC datasets and show that fine-tuning with additional datasets can improve the PLMs{'} generalization performance on the primary dataset. PLMs fine-tuned with our proposed framework outperform the current state-of-the-art models by 7{\\%} to 11{\\%} on small datasets while aligning with the best-performing model on a large dataset."}
{"Title": "TransferCVLM: Transferring Cross-Modal Knowledge for Vision-Language Modeling", "Abstract": "Recent large vision-language multimodal models pre-trained with huge amount of image-text pairs show remarkable performances in downstream tasks. However, the multimodal pre-training has limitations in terms of resources and training time when it comes to obtaining new models that surpass existing models. To overcome these issues, we propose TransferCVLM, a method of efficient knowledge transfer that integrates pre-trained uni-modal models (and cross-modal fusion-encoder) into a combined vision-language model (CVLM), without pre-training the CVLM with large amount of multimodal data, and then for each task application, fine-tunes the CVLM and transfers the multimodal knowledge of a teacher vision-language model to the CVLM by using knowledge distillation techniques. We demonstrate that 1) the fine-tuned CVLM performs comparable to other vision-language models of similar size, that 2) the multimodal knowledge transfer consistently enhances the CVLM, and the knowledge-transferred CVLM composed of large-size unimodal models outperforms the teacher multimodal model in most of downstream tasks, and that 3) TransferCVLM can also be used for model compression when using small-size unimodal models. We estimate that the training of TransferCVLM takes only 6{\\%} of pre-training of other vision-language models. Our code is available at https://github.com/DMCB-GIST/TransferCVLM."}
{"Title": "Fast Streaming Transducer ASR Prototyping via Knowledge Distillation with Whisper", "Abstract": "The training of automatic speech recognition (ASR) with little to no supervised data remains an open question. In this work, we demonstrate that streaming Transformer-Transducer (TT) models can be trained from scratch in consumer and accessible GPUs in their entirety with pseudo-labeled (PL) speech from foundational speech models (FSM). This allows training a robust ASR model just in one stage and does not require large data and computational budget compared to the two-step scenario with pre-training and fine-tuning. We perform a comprehensive ablation on different aspects of PL-based streaming TT models such as the impact of (1) shallow fusion of n-gram LMs, (2) contextual biasing with named entities, (3) chunk-wise decoding for low-latency streaming applications, and (4) TT overall performance as the function of the FSM size. Our results demonstrate that TT can be trained from scratch without supervised data, even with very noisy PLs. We validate the proposed framework on 6 languages from CommonVoice and propose multiple heuristics to filter out hallucinated PLs."}
{"Title": "Reasoning Paths Optimization: Learning to Reason and Explore From Diverse Paths", "Abstract": "Advanced models such as OpenAI o1 exhibit impressive problem-solving capabilities through step-by-step reasoning. However, they may still falter on more complex problems, making errors that disrupt their reasoning paths. We attribute this to the expansive solution space, where each step has the risk of diverging into mistakes. To enhance language model reasoning, we introduce a specialized training framework called Reasoning Paths Optimization (RPO), which enables learning to reason and explore from diverse paths. Our approach encourages favorable branches at each reasoning step while penalizing unfavorable ones, enhancing the model{'}s overall problem-solving performance. Reasoning Paths Optimization does not rely on large-scale human-annotated rationales or outputs from closed-source models, making it scalable and data-efficient. We focus on multi-step reasoning tasks, such as math word problems and science-based exam questions. The experiments demonstrate that our framework significantly enhances the reasoning performance of large language models, with up to 3.1{\\%} and 4.3{\\%} improvement on GSM8K and MMLU (STEM) respectively. Our data and code can be found at https://reasoning-paths.github.io."}
{"Title": "Uncertainty Calibration for Tool-Using Language Agents", "Abstract": "There is increasing interest in equipping language models with the ability to leverage external tools for complex, goal-oriented tasks. However, interacting with external tools introduces inherent uncertainties due to imperfections and misalignments between the tools{'} outputs and the agents{'} internal models, often leading to suboptimal outcomes. We thus study the problem of tool-use calibration in language agents, and identify prompt design and execution trace selection as two primary areas that suffer from miscalibration. We then propose ProbeCal, which recalibrates the internal probabilities of tool-using language agents to better reflect the actual effectiveness of tool, and enables a more appropriate selection of prompts and execution paths. We empirically show that ProbeCal can significantly and consistently improve off-the-shelf language models in tool-using applications."}
{"Title": "Personalized Video Comment Generation", "Abstract": "Generating personalized responses, particularly in the context of video, poses a unique challenge for language models. This paper introduces the novel task of \\textbf{Personalized Video Comment Generation} (PVCG), aiming to predict user comments tailored to both the input video and the user{'}s comment history, where the user is unseen during the model training process. Unlike existing video captioning tasks that ignores the personalization in the text generation process, we introduce PerVidCom, a new dataset specifically collected for this novel task with diverse personalized comments from YouTube. Recognizing the limitations of existing captioning metrics for evaluating this task, we propose a new automatic metric based on Large Language Models (LLMs) with few-shot in-context learning, named FICL-Score, specifically measuring quality from the aspects of emotion, language style and content relevance. We verify the proposed metric with human evaluations. We establish baselines using prominent Multimodal LLMs (MLLMs), analyze their performance discrepancies through extensive evaluation, and identifies directions for future improvement on this important task. Our research opens up a new direction of personalizing MLLMs and paves the way for future research."}
{"Title": "Solving for X and Beyond: Can Large Language Models Solve Complex Math Problems with More-Than-Two Unknowns?", "Abstract": "Large Language Models have demonstrates remarkable performance in solving math problems, a hallmark of human intelligence.Despite high success rates on current benchmarks, however, these often feature simple problems with only one or two unknowns, which do not sufficiently challenge their reasoning capacities. This paper introduces a novel benchmark, BeyondX, designed to address these limitations by incorporating problems with multiple unknowns. Recognizing the challenges in proposing multi-unknown problems from scratch, we developed BeyondX using an innovative automated pipeline that progressively increases complexity by expanding the number of unknowns in simpler problems. Empirical study on BeyondX reveals that the performance of existing LLMs, even those fine-tuned specifically on math tasks, significantly decreases as the number of unknowns increases - with a performance drop of up to 70{\\%} observed in GPT-4. To tackle these challenges, we propose the Formulate-and-Solve strategy, a generalized prompting approach that effectively handles problems with an arbitrary number of unknowns. Our findings reveal that this strategy not only enhances LLM performance on the BeyondX benchmark but also provides deeper insights into the computational limits of LLMs when faced with more complex mathematical challenges."}
{"Title": "MedLogic-AQA: Enhancing Medicare Question Answering with Abstractive Models Focusing on Logical Structures", "Abstract": "In Medicare question-answering (QA) tasks, the need for effective systems is pivotal in delivering accurate responses to intricate medical queries. However, existing approaches often struggle to grasp the intricate logical structures and relationships inherent in medical contexts, thus limiting their capacity to furnish precise and nuanced answers. In this work, we address this gap by proposing a novel Abstractive QA system MedLogic-AQA that harnesses first-order logic-based rules extracted from both context and questions to generate well-grounded answers. Through initial experimentation, we identified six pertinent first-order logical rules, which were then used to train a Logic-Understanding (LU) model capable of generating logical triples for a given context, question, and answer. These logic triples are then integrated into the training of MediLogic-AQA, enabling reasoned and coherent reasoning during answer generation. This distinctive fusion of logical reasoning with abstractive question answering equips our system to produce answers that are logically sound, relevant, and engaging. Evaluation with respect to both automated and human-based demonstrates the robustness of MedLogic-AQA against strong baselines. Through empirical assessments and case studies, we validate the efficacy of MedLogic-AQA in elevating the quality and comprehensiveness of answers in terms of reasoning as well as informativeness."}
{"Title": "EmbodiedBERT: Cognitively Informed Metaphor Detection Incorporating Sensorimotor Information", "Abstract": "The identification of metaphor is a crucial prerequisite for many downstream language tasks, such as sentiment analysis, opinion mining, and textual entailment. State-of-the-art systems of metaphor detection implement heuristic principles such as Metaphor Identification Procedure (MIP) and Selection Preference Violation (SPV). We propose an innovative approach that leverages the cognitive information of embodiment that can be derived from word embeddings, and explicitly models the process of sensorimotor change that has been demonstrated as essential for human metaphor processing. We showed that this cognitively motivated module is effective and can improve metaphor detection, compared with the heuristic MIP that has been applied previously."}
{"Title": "PositionID: LLMs can Control Lengths, Copy and Paste with Explicit Positional Awareness", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) demonstrate impressive capabilities across various domains, including role-playing, creative writing, mathematical reasoning, and coding. Despite these advancements, LLMs still encounter challenges with length control, frequently failing to adhere to specific length constraints due to their token-level operations and insufficient training on data with strict length limitations. We identify this issue as stemming from a lack of positional awareness and propose novel approaches{---}PositionID Prompting and PositionID Fine-Tuning{---}to address it. These methods enhance the model{'}s ability to continuously monitor and manage text length during generation. Additionally, we introduce PositionID CP Prompting to enable LLMs to perform copy and paste operations accurately. Furthermore, we develop two benchmarks for evaluating length control and copy-paste abilities. Our experiments demonstrate that our methods significantly improve the model{'}s adherence to length constraints and copy-paste accuracy without compromising response quality."}
{"Title": "SedarEval: Automated Evaluation using Self-Adaptive Rubrics", "Abstract": "The evaluation paradigm of LLM-as-judge gains popularity due to its significant reduction in human labor and time costs. This approach utilizes one or more large language models (LLMs) to assess the quality of outputs from other LLMs. However, existing methods rely on generic scoring rubrics that fail to consider the specificities of each question and its problem-solving process, compromising precision and stability in assessments. Inspired by human examination scoring processes, we propose a new evaluation paradigm based on self-adaptive rubrics. Specifically, we create detailed scoring rubrics for each question, capturing the primary and secondary criteria in a structured format of scoring and deduction points that mimic a human evaluator{'}s analytical process. Building on this paradigm, we further develop a novel benchmark called SedarEval, which covers a range of domains including long-tail knowledge, mathematics, coding, and logical reasoning. SedarEval consists of 1,000 meticulously crafted questions, each with its own self-adaptive rubric. To further streamline the evaluation, we train a specialized evaluator language model (evaluator LM) to supplant human graders. Using the same training data, our evaluator LM achieves a higher concordance rate with human grading results than other paradigms, including GPT-4, highlighting the superiority and efficiency of our approach."}
{"Title": "Towards One-to-Many Visual Question Answering", "Abstract": "Most existing Visual Question Answering (VQA) systems are constrained to support domain-specific questions, i.e., to train different models separately for different VQA tasks, thus generalizing poorly to others. For example, models trained on the reasoning-focused dataset GQA struggle to effectively handle samples from the knowledge-emphasizing dataset OKVQA. Meanwhile, in real-world scenarios, it is user-unfriendly to restrict the domain of questions. Therefore, this paper proposes a necessary task: One-to-Many Visual Question Answering, of which the ultimate goal is to enable a single model to answer as many different domains of questions as possible by the effective integration of available VQA resources. To this end, we first investigate into ten common VQA datasets, and break the task of VQA down into the integration of three key abilities.Then, considering assorted questions rely on different VQA abilities, this paper proposes a novel dynamic Mixture of LoRAs (MoL) strategy. MoL mixes three individually trained LoRA adapters (corresponding to each VQA ability) dynamically for different samples demanding various VQA abilities. The proposed MoL strategy is verified to be highly effective by experiments, establishing SOTAs on four datasets. In addition, MoL generalizes well to three extra zero-shot datasets.Data and codes will be released."}
{"Title": "Document-level Causal Relation Extraction with Knowledge-guided Binary Question Answering", "Abstract": "As an essential task in information extraction (IE), Event-Event Causal Relation Extraction (ECRE) aims to identify and classify the causal relationships between event mentions in natural language texts. However, existing research on ECRE has highlighted two critical challenges, including the lack of document-level modeling and causal hallucinations. In this paper, we propose a Knowledge-guided binary Question Answering (KnowQA) method with event structures for ECRE, consisting of two stages: Event Structure Construction and Binary Question Answering. We conduct extensive experiments under both zero-shot and fine-tuning settings with large language models (LLMs) on the MECI and MAVEN-ERE datasets. Experimental results demonstrate the usefulness of event structures on document-level ECRE and the effectiveness of KnowQA by achieving state-of-the-art on the MECI dataset. We observe not only the effectiveness but also the high generalizability and low inconsistency of our method, particularly when with complete event structures after fine-tuning the models."}
{"Title": "Block-Diagonal Orthogonal Relation and Matrix Entity for Knowledge Graph Embedding", "Abstract": "The primary aim of Knowledge Graph Embeddings (KGE) is to learn low-dimensional representations of entities and relations for predicting missing facts. While rotation-based methods like RotatE and QuatE perform well in KGE, they face two challenges: limited model flexibility requiring proportional increases in relation size with entity dimension, and difficulties in generalizing the model for higher-dimensional rotations. To address these issues, we introduce OrthogonalE, a novel KGE model employing matrices for entities and block-diagonal orthogonal matrices with Riemannian optimization for relations. This approach not only enhances the generality and flexibility of KGE models but also captures several relation patterns that rotation-based methods can identify. Experimental results indicate that our new KGE model, OrthogonalE, offers generality and flexibility, captures several relation patterns, and significantly outperforms state-of-the-art KGE models while substantially reducing the number of relation parameters."}
{"Title": "When Compression Meets Model Compression: Memory-Efficient Double Compression for Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) exhibit excellent performance in various tasks. However, the memory requirements of LLMs present a great challenge when deploying on memory-limited devices, even for quantized LLMs. This paper introduces a framework to compress LLM after quantization further, achieving about 2.2x compression ratio. A compression-aware quantization is first proposed to enhance model weight compressibility by re-scaling the model parameters before quantization, followed by a pruning method to improve further. Upon this, we notice that decompression can be a bottleneck during practical scenarios. We then give a detailed analysis of the trade-off between memory usage and latency brought by the proposed method. A speed-adaptive method is proposed to overcome it. The experimental results show inference with the compressed model can achieve a 40{\\%} reduction in memory size with negligible loss in accuracy and inference speed."}
{"Title": "BiMediX: Bilingual Medical Mixture of Experts LLM", "Abstract": "In this paper, we introduce BiMediX, the first bilingual medical mixture of experts LLM designed for seamless interaction in both English and Arabic. Our model facilitates a wide range of medical interactions in English and Arabic, including multi-turn chats to inquire about additional details such as patient symptoms and medical history, multiple-choice question answering, and open-ended question answering. We propose a semi-automated English-to-Arabic translation pipeline with human refinement to ensure high-quality translations. We also introduce a comprehensive evaluation benchmark for Arabic medical LLMs. Furthermore, we introduce BiMed1.3M, an extensive Arabic-English bilingual instruction set that covers 1.3 Million diverse medical interactions, including 200k synthesized multi-turn doctor-patient chats, in a 1:2 Arabic-to-English ratio. Our model outperforms state-of-the-art Med42 and Meditron by average absolute gains of 2.5{\\%} and 4.1{\\%}, respectively, computed across multiple medical evaluation benchmarks in English, while operating at 8-times faster inference. Moreover, our BiMediX outperforms the generic Arabic-English bilingual LLM, Jais-30B, by average absolute gains of 10{\\%} on our Arabic and 15{\\%} on our bilingual evaluations across multiple datasets. Additionally, BiMediX exceeds the accuracy of GPT4 by 4.4{\\%} in open-ended question UPHILL evaluation and largely outperforms state-of-the-art open source medical LLMs in human evaluations of multi-turn conversations. Our trained models, instruction set, and source code are available at https://github.com/mbzuai-oryx/BiMediX."}
{"Title": "Improving Adversarial Robustness in Vision-Language Models with Architecture and Prompt Design", "Abstract": "Vision-Language Models (VLMs) have seen a significant increase in both research interest and real-world applications across various domains, including healthcare, autonomous systems, and security. However, their growing prevalence demands higher reliability and safety including robustness to adversarial attacks. We systematically examine the possibility of incorporating adversarial robustness through various model design choices. We explore the effects of different vision encoders, the resolutions of vision encoders, and the size and type of language models. Additionally, we introduce novel, cost-effective approaches to enhance robustness through prompt engineering. By simply suggesting the possibility of adversarial perturbations or rephrasing questions, we demonstrate substantial improvements in model robustness against strong image-based attacks such as Auto-PGD. Our findings provide important guidelines for developing more robust VLMs, particularly for deployment in safety-critical environments where reliability and security are paramount. These insights are crucial for advancing the field of VLMs, ensuring they can be safely and effectively utilized in a wide range of applications."}
{"Title": "Zero-Shot Fact Verification via Natural Logic and Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The recent development of fact verification systems with natural logic has enhanced their explainability by aligning claims with evidence through set-theoretic operators, providing faithful justifications. Despite these advancements, such systems often rely on a large amount of training data annotated with natural logic. To address this issue, we propose a zero-shot method that utilizes the generalization capabilities of instruction-tuned large language models. To comprehensively assess the zero-shot capabilities of our method and other fact verification systems, we evaluate all models on both artificial and real-world claims, including multilingual datasets. We also compare our method against other fact verification systems in two setups. First, in the zero-shot generalization setup, we demonstrate that our approach outperforms other systems that were not specifically trained on natural logic data, achieving an average accuracy improvement of 8.96 points over the best-performing baseline. Second, in the zero-shot transfer setup, we show that current systems trained on natural logic data do not generalize well to other domains, and our method outperforms these systems across all datasets with real-world claims."}
{"Title": "Robust AI-Generated Text Detection by Restricted Embeddings", "Abstract": "Growing amount and quality of AI-generated texts makes detecting such content more difficult. In most real-world scenarios, the domain (style and topic) of generated data and the generator model are not known in advance. In this work, we focus on the robustness of classifier-based detectors of AI-generated text, namely their ability to transfer to unseen generators or semantic domains. We investigate the geometry of the embedding space of Transformer-based text encoders and show that clearing out harmful linear subspaces helps to train a robust classifier, ignoring domain-specific spurious features. We investigate several subspace decomposition and feature selection strategies and achieve significant improvements over state of the art methods in cross-domain and cross-generator transfer. Our best approaches for head-wise and coordinate-based subspace removal increase the mean out-of-distribution (OOD) classification score by up to 9{\\%} and 14{\\%} in particular setups for RoBERTa and BERT embeddings respectively. We release our code and data: https://github.com/SilverSolver/RobustATD"}
{"Title": "CROWD: Certified Robustness via Weight Distribution for Smoothed Classifiers against Backdoor Attack", "Abstract": "Language models are vulnerable to clandestinely modified data and manipulation by attackers. Despite considerable research dedicated to enhancing robustness against adversarial attacks, the realm of provable robustness for backdoor attacks remains relatively unexplored. In this paper, we initiate a pioneering investigation into the certified robustness of NLP models against backdoor triggers.We propose a model-agnostic mechanism for large-scale models that applies to complex model structures without the need for assessing model architecture or internal knowledge. More importantly, we take recent advances in randomized smoothing theory and propose a novel weight-based distribution algorithm to enable semantic similarity and provide theoretical robustness guarantees.Experimentally, we demonstrate the efficacy of our approach across a diverse range of datasets and tasks, highlighting its utility in mitigating backdoor triggers. Our results show strong performance in terms of certified accuracy, scalability, and semantic preservation."}
{"Title": "MiLoRA: Efficient Mixture of Low-Rank Adaptation for Large Language Models Fine-tuning", "Abstract": "Low-rank adaptation (LoRA) and its mixture-of-experts (MOE) variants are highly effective parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods. However, they introduce significant latency in multi-tenant settings due to the LoRA modules and MOE routers added to multiple linear modules in the Transformer layer. To address this issue, we propose Mixture of Low-Rank Adaptation (MiLoRA), a novel and efficient LoRA variant. MiLoRA differs from previous MOE-style LoRA methods by considering each LoRA module as an expert and employing a prompt-aware routing mechanism. This mechanism calculates expert routing results once before generating the first new token and reuses these results for subsequent tokens, reducing latency. Extensive experiments and analysis on commonsense reasoning tasks, math reasoning tasks, and widely used LLM evaluation benchmarks demonstrate that MiLoRA consistently outperforms strong PEFT baselines with comparable tunable parameter budgets. Additionally, MiLoRA significantly reduces latency in multi-tenant settings compared to previous LoRA-based methods."}
{"Title": "LLM Tropes: Revealing Fine-Grained Values and Opinions in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Uncovering latent values and opinions embedded in large language models (LLMs) can help identify biases and mitigate potential harm. Recently, this has been approached by prompting LLMs with survey questions and quantifying the stances in the outputs towards morally and politically charged statements. However, the stances generated by LLMs can vary greatly depending on how they are prompted, and there are many ways to argue for or against a given position. In this work, we propose to address this by analysing a large and robust dataset of 156k LLM responses to the 62 propositions of the Political Compass Test (PCT) generated by 6 LLMs using 420 prompt variations. We perform coarse-grained analysis of their generated stances and fine-grained analysis of the plain text justifications for those stances. For fine-grained analysis, we propose to identify tropes in the responses: semantically similar phrases that are recurrent and consistent across different prompts, revealing natural patterns in the text that a given LLM is prone to produce. We find that demographic features added to prompts significantly affect outcomes on the PCT, reflecting bias, as well as disparities between the results of tests when eliciting closed-form vs. open domain responses. Additionally, patterns in the plain text rationales via tropes show that similar justifications are repeatedly generated across models and prompts even with disparate stances."}
{"Title": "PythonSaga: Redefining the Benchmark to Evaluate Code Generating LLMs", "Abstract": "Driven by the surge in code generation using large language models (LLMs), numerous benchmarks have emerged to evaluate these LLMs capabilities. We conducted a large-scale human evaluation of *HumanEval* and *MBPP*, two popular benchmarks for Python code generation, analyzing their diversity and difficulty. Our findings unveil a critical bias towards a limited set of programming concepts, neglecting most of the other concepts entirely. Furthermore, we uncover a worrying prevalence of easy tasks that can inflate model performance estimations. To address these limitations, we propose a novel benchmark, *PythonSaga*, featuring 185 hand-crafted prompts in a balanced representation of 38 programming concepts across diverse difficulty levels. The robustness of our benchmark is demonstrated by the poor performance of existing Code-LLMs. The code and data set are openly available to the NLP community at this [URL](https://github.com/PythonSaga/PythonSaga)."}
{"Title": "Efficient and Interpretable Grammatical Error Correction with Mixture of Experts", "Abstract": "Error type information has been widely used to improve the performance of grammatical error correction (GEC) models, whether for generating corrections, re-ranking them, or combining GEC models. Combining GEC models that have complementary strengths in correcting different error types is very effective in producing better corrections. However, system combination incurs a high computational cost due to the need to run inference on the base systems before running the combination method itself. Therefore, it would be more efficient to have a single model with multiple sub-networks that specialize in correcting different error types. In this paper, we propose a mixture-of-experts model, MoECE, for grammatical error correction. Our model successfully achieves the performance of T5-XL with three times fewer effective parameters. Additionally, our model produces interpretable corrections by also identifying the error type during inference."}
{"Title": "Dial BeInfo for Faithfulness: Improving Factuality of Information-Seeking Dialogue via Behavioural Fine-Tuning", "Abstract": "Factual faithfulness is a crucial requirement in information-seeking dialogue: the system should respond to the user queries so that the responses are meaningful and aligned with the knowledge provided to the system. However, most modern large language models (LLMs) suffer from hallucinations, that is, they generate responses not supported by or even contradicting the knowledge source. To mitigate the issue and increase faithfulness of information-seeking dialogue systems supported by the LLMs, we introduce BeInfo, a simple yet effective method that applies {`}behavioural tuning{'} on the LLMs to aid information-seeking dialogue. Relying on three standard information seeking dialogue datasets, we show that models tuned with BeInfo become considerably more faithful to the knowledge source both for datasets and domains seen during BeInfo-tuning, as well as on unseen domains, when applied in a zero-shot manner. In addition, we present a {`}real-life{'} case study on conversations with real users, showcasing that the models with 3B parameters (e.g., Flan-T5) tuned with BeInfo demonstrate strong performance on data from real {`}production{'} conversations: when tuned on a limited amount of such realistic in-domain dialogues, they surpass much larger LLMs used {`}off-the-shelf{'}, both on automatic and human evaluation metrics."}
{"Title": "Unified Active Retrieval for Retrieval Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "In Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), retrieval is not always helpful and applying it to every instruction is sub-optimal. Therefore, determining whether to retrieve is crucial for RAG, which is usually referred to as Active Retrieval. However, existing active retrieval methods face two challenges: 1. They usually rely on a single criterion, which struggles with handling various types of instructions. 2. They depend on specialized and highly differentiated procedures, and thus combining them makes the RAG system more complicated and leads to higher response latency. To address these challenges, we propose Unified Active Retrieval (UAR). UAR contains four orthogonal criteria and casts them into plug-and-play classification tasks, which achieves multifaceted retrieval timing judgements with negligible extra inference cost. We further introduce the Unified Active Retrieval Criteria (UAR-Criteria), designed to process diverse active retrieval scenarios through a standardized procedure. Experiments on four representative types of user instructions show that UAR significantly outperforms existing work on the retrieval timing judgement and the performance of downstream tasks, which shows the effectiveness of UAR and its helpfulness to downstream tasks."}
{"Title": "Mitigating Catastrophic Forgetting in Language Transfer via Model Merging", "Abstract": "As open-weight large language models (LLMs) achieve ever more impressive performance across a wide range of tasks in English, practitioners aim to adapt these models to different languages. However, such language adaptation is often accompanied by catastrophic forgetting of the base model{'}s capabilities, severely limiting the usefulness of the resulting model. We address this issue by proposing Branch-and-Merge (BaM), a new adaptation method based on iteratively merging multiple models, fine-tuned on a subset of the available training data. BaM is based on the insight that this yields lower magnitude but higher quality weight changes, reducing forgetting of the source domain while maintaining learning on the target domain. We demonstrate in an extensive empirical study on Bulgarian and German that BaM can significantly reduce forgetting while matching or even improving target domain performance compared to both standard continued pretraining and instruction finetuning across different model architectures."}
{"Title": "ATQ: Activation Transformation forWeight-Activation Quantization of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "There are many emerging quantization methods to resolve the problem that the huge demand on computational and storage costs hinders the deployment of Large language models (LLMs). However, their accuracy performance still can not satisfy the entire academic and industry community. In this work, we propose ATQ, an INT8 weight-activation quantization of LLMs, that can achieve almost lossless accuracy. We employ a mathematically equivalent transformation and a triangle inequality to constrain weight-activation quantization error to the sum of a weight quantization error and an activation quantization error. For the weight part, transformed weights are quantized along the |in-feature| dimension and the quantization error is compensated by optimizing following in-features. For the activation part, transformed activations are in the normal range and can be quantized easily. We provide comparison experiments to demonstrate that our ATQ method can achieve almost lossless in accuracy on OPT and LLaMA families in W8A8 quantization settings. The increase of perplexity is within 1 and the accuracy degradation is within 0.5 percent even in the worst case."}
{"Title": "Stochastic Fine-Tuning of Language Models Using Masked Gradients", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as the dominant paradigm in Natural Language Processing owing to their remarkable performance across various target tasks. However, naively fine-tuning them for specific downstream tasks often requires updating a vast number of parameters, resulting in high computational costs and overfitting when training data is limited. In this paper, we propose a novel approach, called *Stochastic Tuning*, that addresses these challenges by selectively updating a small subset of parameters in each step of the tuning process. Our approach is characterized by its customization of updates based on task-specific partial gradients with respect to stochastic sub-networks. The advantage of Stochastic Tuning over existing solutions lies in its ability to consider both parameter weights as well as forward values which guarantees a context-sensitive fine-tuning. Our experiments demonstrate that Stochastic Tuning outperforms existing lightweight fine-tuning methods, improving average performance by over two points on RoBERTa across several tasks in the GLUE benchmark while updating merely **0.08**{\\%} of the model{'}s parameters. The code for our implementation can be found at https://github.com/m-Tajari/StocTuning{\\_}LLMs."}
{"Title": "To Know or Not To Know? Analyzing Self-Consistency of Large Language Models under Ambiguity", "Abstract": "One of the major aspects contributing to the striking performance of large language models (LLMs) is the vast amount of factual knowledge accumulated during pre-training. Yet, many LLMs suffer from self-inconsistency, which raises doubts about their trustworthiness and reliability. This paper focuses on entity type ambiguity, analyzing the proficiency and consistency of state-of-the-art LLMs in applying factual knowledge when prompted with ambiguous entities. To do so, we propose an evaluation protocol that disentangles knowing from applying knowledge, and test state-of-the-art LLMs on 49 ambiguous entities. Our experiments reveal that LLMs struggle with choosing the correct entity reading, achieving an average accuracy of only 85{\\%}, and as low as 75{\\%} with underspecified prompts. The results also reveal systematic discrepancies in LLM behavior, showing that while the models may possess knowledge, they struggle to apply it consistently, exhibit biases toward preferred readings, and display self-inconsistencies. This highlights the need to address entity ambiguity in the future for more trustworthy LLMs."}
{"Title": "Optimal and efficient text counterfactuals using Graph Neural Networks", "Abstract": "As NLP models become increasingly integral to decision-making processes, the need for explainability and interpretability has become paramount. In this work, we propose a framework that achieves the aforementioned by generating semantically edited inputs, known as counterfactual interventions, which change the model prediction, thus providing a form of counterfactual explanations for the model. We frame the search for optimal counterfactual interventions as a graph assignment problem and employ a GNN to solve it, thus achieving high efficiency. We test our framework on two NLP tasks - binary sentiment classification and topic classification - and show that the generated edits are contrastive, fluent and minimal, while the whole process remains significantly faster than other state-of-the-art counterfactual editors."}
{"Title": "Routing in Sparsely-gated Language Models responds to Context", "Abstract": "Language Models (LMs) recently incorporate mixture-of-experts layers consisting of a router and a collection of experts to scale up their parameter count given a fixed computational budget. Building on previous efforts indicating that token-expert assignments are predominantly influenced by token identities and positions, we trace routing decisions of similarity-annotated text pairs to evaluate the context sensitivity of learned token-expert assignments. We observe that routing in encoder layers mainly depends on (semantic) associations, but contextual cues provide an additional layer of refinement. Conversely, routing in decoder layers is more variable and markedly less sensitive to context."}
{"Title": "Are there identifiable structural parts in the sentence embedding whole?", "Abstract": "Sentence embeddings from transformer models encode much linguistic information in a fixed-length vector. We investigate whether structural information {--} specifically, information about chunks and their structural and semantic properties {--} can be detected in these representations. We use a dataset consisting of sentences with known chunk structure, and two linguistic intelligence datasets, whose solution relies on detecting chunks and their grammatical number, and respectively, their semantic roles. Through an approach involving indirect supervision, and through analyses of the performance on the tasks and of the internal representations built during learning, we show that information about chunks and their properties can be obtained from sentence embeddings."}
{"Title": "Learning, Forgetting, Remembering: Insights From Tracking LLM Memorization During Training", "Abstract": "Large language models memorize portions of their training data verbatim. Our findings indicate that models exhibit higher memorization rates both early on and at the very end of their training, with the lowest rates occurring midway through the process. This phenomenon can be attributed to the models retaining most of the examples memorized early on, while forgetting many more examples as training progresses. Interestingly, these forgotten examples are sometimes re-memorized later on, often undergoing cycles of forgetting and re-memorization. Notably, examples memorized early in training are more likely to remain consistently retained, suggesting that they become more firmly {'}crystallized{'} in the model{'}s representation. Based on these insights, we tentatively recommend placing data that is more likely to be sensitive in the middle stages of the training process."}
{"Title": "Language Models Linearly Represent Sentiment", "Abstract": "Sentiment is a pervasive feature in natural language text, yet it is an open question how sentiment is represented within Large Language Models (LLMs). In this study, we reveal that across a range of models, sentiment is represented linearly: a single direction in activation space mostly captures the feature across a range of tasks with one extreme for positive and the other for negative. In a causal analysis, we isolate this direction using interventions and show it is causal in both toy tasks and real world datasets such as Stanford Sentiment Treebank. We analyze the mechanisms that involve this direction and discover a phenomenon which we term the summarization motif: sentiment is not just represented on valenced words, but is also summarized at intermediate positions without inherent sentiment, such as punctuation and names. We show that in SST classification, ablating the sentiment direction across all tokens results in a drop in accuracy from 100{\\%} to 62{\\%} (vs. 50{\\%} random baseline), while ablating the summarized sentiment direction at comma positions alone produces close to half this result (reducing accuracy to 82{\\%})."}
{"Title": "LLM Internal States Reveal Hallucination Risk Faced With a Query", "Abstract": "The hallucination problem of Large Language Models (LLMs) significantly limits their reliability and trustworthiness. Humans have a self-awareness process that allows us to recognize what we don{'}t know when faced with queries. Inspired by this, our paper investigates whether LLMs can estimate their own hallucination risk before response generation. We analyze the internal mechanisms of LLMs broadly both in terms of training data sources and across 15 diverse Natural Language Generation (NLG) tasks, spanning over 700 datasets. Our empirical analysis reveals two key insights: (1) LLM internal states indicate whether they have seen the query in training data or not; and (2) LLM internal states show they are likely to hallucinate or not regarding the query. Our study explores particular neurons, activation layers, and tokens that play a crucial role in the LLM perception of uncertainty and hallucination risk. By a probing estimator, we leverage LLM self-assessment, achieving an average hallucination estimation accuracy of 84.32{\\%} at run time."}
{"Title": "Enhancing adversarial robustness in Natural Language Inference using explanations", "Abstract": "The surge of state-of-the-art transformer-based models has undoubtedly pushed the limits of NLP model performance, excelling in a variety of tasks. We cast the spotlight on the underexplored task of Natural Language Inference (NLI), since models trained on popular well-suited datasets are susceptible to adversarial attacks, allowing subtle input interventions to mislead the model. In this work, we validate the usage of natural language explanation as a model-agnostic defence strategy through extensive experimentation: only by fine-tuning a classifier on the explanation rather than premise-hypothesis inputs, robustness under various adversarial attacks is achieved in comparison to explanation-free baselines. Moreover, since there is no standard strategy for testing the semantic validity of the generated explanations, we research the correlation of widely used language generation metrics with human perception, in order for them to serve as a proxy towards robust NLI models. Our approach is resource-efficient and reproducible without significant computational limitations."}
{"Title": "MultiContrievers: Analysis of Dense Retrieval Representations", "Abstract": "Dense retrievers compress source documents into (possibly lossy) vector representations, yet there is little analysis of what information is lost versus preserved, and how it affects downstream tasks. We conduct the first analysis of the information captured by dense retrievers compared to the language models they are based on (e.g., BERT versus Contriever). We use 25 MultiBert checkpoints as randomized initialisations to train MultiContrievers, a set of 25 contriever models. We test whether specific pieces of information{---}such as genderand occupation{---}can be extracted from contriever vectors of wikipedia-like documents. We measure this extractability via information theoretic probing. We then examine the relationship of extractability to performance and gender bias, as well as the sensitivity of these results to many random initialisations and data shuffles. We find that (1) contriever models have significantly increased extractability, but extractability usually correlates poorly with benchmark performance 2) gender bias is present, but is not caused by the contriever representations 3) there is high sensitivity to both random initialisation and to data shuffle, suggesting that future retrieval research should test across a wider spread of both."}
{"Title": "Can We Statically Locate Knowledge in Large Language Models? Financial Domain and Toxicity Reduction Case Studies", "Abstract": "Current large language model (LLM) evaluations rely on benchmarks to assess model capabilities and their encoded knowledge. However, these evaluations cannot reveal where a model encodes its knowledge, and thus little is known about which weights contain specific information. We propose a method to statically (without forward or backward passes) locate topical knowledge in the weight space of an LLM, building on a prior insight that parameters can be decoded into interpretable tokens. If parameters can be mapped into the embedding space, it should be possible to directly search for knowledge via embedding similarity. We study the validity of this assumption across several LLMs for a variety of concepts in the financial domain and a toxicity detection setup. Our analysis yields an improved understanding of the promises and limitations of static knowledge location in real-world scenarios."}
{"Title": "Attend First, Consolidate Later: On the Importance of Attention in Different LLM Layers", "Abstract": "In decoder-based LLMs, the representation of a given layer serves two purposes: as input to the next layer during the computation of the current token; and as input to the attention mechanism of future tokens. In this work, we show that the importance of the latter role might be overestimated. To show that, we start by manipulating the representations of previous tokens; e.g. by replacing the hidden states at some layer $k$ with random vectors.Our experimenting with four LLMs and four tasks show that this operation often leads to small to negligible drop in performance. Importantly, this happens if the manipulation occurs in the top part of the model{---}$k$ is in the final 30{--}50{\\%} of the layers. In contrast, doing the same manipulation in earlier layers might lead to chance level performance.We continue by switching the hidden state of certain tokens with hidden states of other tokens from another prompt; e.g., replacing the word {``}Italy{''} with {``}France{''} in {``}What is the capital of Italy?{''}. We find that when applying this switch in the top 1/3 of the model, the model ignores it (answering {``}Rome{''}). However if we apply it before, the model conforms to the switch ({``}Paris{''}).Our results hint at a two stage process in transformer-based LLMs: the first part gathers input from previous tokens, while the second mainly processes that information internally."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Question Answering on Charts Through Effective Pre-training Tasks", "Abstract": "To completely understand a document, the use of textual information is not enough. Understanding visual cues, such as layouts and charts, is also required. While the current state-of-the-art approaches for document understanding (both OCR-based and OCR-free) work well, a thorough analysis of their capabilities and limitations has not yet been performed. Therefore, in this work, we addresses the limitation of current VisualQA models when applied to charts and plots. To investigate shortcomings of the state-of-the-art models, we conduct a comprehensive behavioral analysis, using ChartQA as a case study. Our findings indicate that existing models particularly underperform in answering questions related to the chart{'}s structural and visual context, as well as numerical information. To address these issues, we propose three simple pre-training tasks that enforce the existing model in terms of both structural-visual knowledge, as well as its understanding of numerical questions. We evaluate our pre-trained model (called MatCha-v2) on three chart datasets - both extractive and abstractive question datasets - and observe that it achieves an average improvement of 1.7 {\\%} over the baseline model."}
{"Title": "Faithfulness and the Notion of Adversarial Sensitivity in NLP Explanations", "Abstract": "Faithfulness is arguably the most critical metric to assess the reliability of explainable AI. In NLP, current methods for faithfulness evaluation are fraught with discrepancies and biases, often failing to capture the true reasoning of models. We introduce Adversarial Sensitivity as a novel approach to faithfulness evaluation, focusing on the explainer{'}s response when the model is under adversarial attack. Our method accounts for the faithfulness of explainers by capturing sensitivity to adversarial input changes. This work addresses significant limitations in existing evaluation techniques, and furthermore, quantifies faithfulness from a crucial yet underexplored paradigm."}
{"Title": "Transformers Learn Transition Dynamics when Trained to Predict Markov Decision Processes", "Abstract": "Language models have displayed a wide array of capabilities, but the reason for their performance remains a topic of heated debate and investigation. Do these models simply recite the observed training data, or are they able to abstract away surface statistics and learn the underlying processes from which the data was generated? To investigate this question, we explore the capabilities of a GPT model in the context of Markov Decision Processes (MDPs), where the underlying transition dynamics and policies are not directly observed. The model is trained to predict the next state or action without any initial knowledge of the MDPs or the players{'} policies. Despite this, we present evidence that the model develops emergent representations of the underlying parameters governing the MDPs."}
{"Title": "On the alignment of LM language generation and human language comprehension", "Abstract": "Previous research on the predictive power (PP) of surprisal and entropy has focused on determining which language models (LMs) generate estimates with the highest PP on reading times, and examining for which populations the PP is strongest. In this study, we leverage eye movement data on texts that were generated using a range of decoding strategies with different LMs. We then extract the transition scores that reflect the models{'} production rather than comprehension effort. This allows us to investigate the alignment of LM language production and human language comprehension. Our findings reveal that there are differences in the strength of the alignment between reading behavior and certain LM decoding strategies and that this alignment further reflects different stages of language understanding (early, late, or global processes). Although we find lower PP of transition-based measures compared to surprisal and entropy for most decoding strategies, our results provide valuable insights into which decoding strategies impose less processing effort for readers. Our code is available via https://github.com/DiLi-Lab/LM-human-alignment."}
{"Title": "An Adversarial Example for Direct Logit Attribution: Memory Management in GELU-4L", "Abstract": "Prior work suggests that language models manage the limited bandwidth of the residual stream through a {``}memory management{''} mechanism, where certain attention heads and MLP layers clear residual stream directions set by earlier layers. Our study provides concrete evidence for this erasure phenomenon in a 4-layer transformer, identifying heads that consistently remove the output of earlier heads. We further demonstrate that direct logit attribution (DLA), a common technique for interpreting the output of intermediate transformer layers, can show misleading results by not accounting for erasure."}
{"Title": "Uncovering Syllable Constituents in the Self-Attention-Based Speech Representations of Whisper", "Abstract": "As intuitive units of speech, syllables have been widely studied in linguistics. A syllable can be defined as a three-constituent unit with a vocalic centre surrounded by two (in some languages optional) consonant clusters. Syllables are also used to design automatic speech recognition (ASR) models. The significance of knowledge-driven syllable-based tokenisation in ASR over data-driven byte-pair encoding has often been debated. However, the emergence of transformer-based ASR models employing self-attention (SA) overshadowed this debate. These models learn the nuances of speech from large corpora without prior knowledge of the domain; yet, they are not interpretable by design. Consequently, it is not clear if the recent performance improvements are related to the extraction of human-interpretable knowledge. We probe such models for syllable constituents and use an SA head pruning method to assess the relevance of the SA weights. We also investigate the role of vowel identification in syllable constituent probing. Our findings show that the general features of syllable constituents are extracted in the earlier layers of the model and the syllable-related features mostly depend on the temporal knowledge incorporated in specific SA heads rather than on vowel identification."}
{"Title": "Recurrent Neural Networks Learn to Store and Generate Sequences using Non-Linear Representations", "Abstract": "The Linear Representation Hypothesis (LRH) states that neural networks learn to encode concepts as directions in activation space, and a strong version of the LRH states that models learn only such encodings. In this paper, we present a counterexample to this strong LRH: when trained to repeat an input token sequence, gated recurrent neural networks (RNNs) learn to represent the token at each position with a particular order of magnitude, rather than a direction. These representations have layered features that are impossible to locate in distinct linear subspaces. To show this, we train interventions to predict and manipulate tokens by learning the scaling factor corresponding to each sequence position. These interventions indicate that the smallest RNNs find only this magnitude-based solution, while larger RNNs have linear representations. These findings strongly indicate that interpretability research should not be confined by the LRH."}
{"Title": "Log Probabilities Are a Reliable Estimate of Semantic Plausibility in Base and Instruction-Tuned Language Models", "Abstract": "Semantic plausibility (e.g. knowing that {``}the actor won the award{''} is more likely than {``}the actor won the battle{''}) serves as an effective proxy for general world knowledge. Language models (LMs) capture vast amounts of world knowledge by learning distributional patterns in text, accessible via log probabilities (LogProbs) they assign to plausible vs. implausible outputs. The new generation of instruction-tuned LMs can now also provide explicit estimates of plausibility via prompting. Here, we evaluate the effectiveness of LogProbs and basic prompting to measure semantic plausibility, both in single-sentence minimal pairs (Experiment 1) and short context-dependent scenarios (Experiment 2). We find that (i) in both base and instruction-tuned LMs, LogProbs offers a more reliable measure of semantic plausibility than direct zero-shot prompting, which yields inconsistent and often poor results; (ii) instruction-tuning generally does not alter the sensitivity of LogProbs to semantic plausibility (although sometimes decreases it); (iii) across models, context mostly modulates LogProbs in expected ways, as measured by three novel metrics of context-sensitive plausibility and their match to explicit human plausibility judgments. We conclude that, even in the era of prompt-based evaluations, LogProbs constitute a useful metric of semantic plausibility, both in base and instruction-tuned LMs."}
{"Title": "Gemma Scope: Open Sparse Autoencoders Everywhere All At Once on Gemma 2", "Abstract": "Sparse autoencoders (SAEs) are an unsupervised method for learning a sparse decomposition of a neural network{'}s latent representations into seemingly interpretable features.Despite recent excitement about their potential, research applications outside of industry are limited by the high cost of training a comprehensive suite of SAEs.In this work, we introduce Gemma Scope, an open suite of JumpReLU SAEs trained on all layers and sub-layers of Gemma 2 2B and 9B and select layers of Gemma 2 27B base models.We primarily train SAEs on the Gemma 2 pre-trained models, but additionally release SAEs trained on instruction-tuned Gemma 2 9B for comparison.We evaluate the quality of each SAE on standard metrics and release these results.We hope that by releasing these SAE weights, we can help make more ambitious safety and interpretability research easier for the community. Weights and a tutorial can be found at \\url{https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-scope} and an interactive demo can be found at \\url{https://neuronpedia.org/gemma-scope}."}
{"Title": "Self-Assessment Tests are Unreliable Measures of LLM Personality", "Abstract": "As large language models (LLM) evolve in their capabilities, various recent studies have tried to quantify their behavior using psychological tools created to study human behavior. One such example is the measurement of {``}personality{''} of LLMs using self-assessment personality tests developed to measure human personality. Yet almost none of these works verify the applicability of these tests on LLMs. In this paper, we analyze the reliability of LLM personality scores obtained from self-assessment personality tests using two simple experiments. We first introduce the property of \\textit{prompt sensitivity}, where three semantically equivalent prompts representing three intuitive ways of administering self-assessment tests on LLMs are used to measure the personality of the same LLM. We find that all three prompts lead to very different personality scores, a difference that is statistically significant for all traits in a large majority of scenarios. We then introduce the property of \\textit{option-order symmetry} for personality measurement of LLMs. Since most of the self-assessment tests exist in the form of multiple choice question (MCQ) questions, we argue that the scores should also be robust to not just the prompt template but also the order in which the options are presented. This test unsurprisingly reveals that the self-assessment test scores are not robust to the order of the options. These simple tests, done on ChatGPT and three Llama2 models of different sizes, show that self-assessment personality tests created for humans are unreliable measures of personality in LLMs."}
{"Title": "How Language Models Prioritize Contextual Grammatical Cues?", "Abstract": "Transformer-based language models have shown an excellent ability to effectively capture and utilize contextual information. Although various analysis techniques have been used to quantify and trace the contribution of single contextual cues to a target task such as subject-verb agreement or coreference resolution, scenarios in which multiple relevant cues are available in the context remain underexplored.In this paper, we investigate how language models handle gender agreement when multiple gender cue words are present, each capable of independently disambiguating a target gender pronoun. We analyze two widely used Transformer-based models: BERT, an encoder-based, and GPT-2, a decoder-based model.Our analysis employs two complementary approaches: context mixing analysis, which tracks information flow within the model, and a variant of activation patching, which measures the impact of cues on the model{'}s prediction. We find that BERT tends to prioritize the first cue in the context to form both the target word representations and the model{'}s prediction, while GPT-2 relies more on the final cue. Our findings reveal striking differences in how encoder-based and decoder-based models prioritize and use contextual information for their predictions."}
{"Title": "Copy Suppression: Comprehensively Understanding a Motif in Language Model Attention Heads", "Abstract": "We present the copy suppression motif: an algorithm implemented by attention heads in large language models that reduces loss.If i) language model components in earlier layers predict a certain token, ii) this token appears earlier in the context and iii) later attention heads in the model suppress prediction of the token, then this is copy suppression. To show the importance of copy suppression, we focus on reverse-engineering attention head 10.7 (L10H7) in GPT-2 Small. This head suppresses naive copying behavior which improves overall model calibration, which explains why multiple prior works studying certain narrow tasks found negative heads that systematically favored the wrong answer. We uncover the mechanism that the negative heads use for copy suppression with weights-based evidence and are able to explain 76.9{\\%} of the impact of L10H7 in GPT-2 Small, by this motif alone.To the best of our knowledge, this is the most comprehensive description of the complete role of a component in a language model to date. One major effect of copy suppression is its role in self-repair. Self-repair refers to how ablating crucial model components results in downstream neural network parts compensating for this ablation. Copy suppression leads to self-repair: if an initial overconfident copier is ablated, then there is nothing to suppress. We show that self-repair is implemented by several mechanisms, one of which is copy suppression, which explains 39{\\%} of the behavior in a narrow task. Interactive visualizations of the copy suppression phenomena may be seen at our web app https://copy-suppression.streamlit.app/."}
{"Title": "WellDunn: On the Robustness and Explainability of Language Models and Large Language Models in Identifying Wellness Dimensions", "Abstract": "Language Models (LMs) are being proposed for mental health applications where the heightened risk of adverse outcomes means predictive performance may not be a sufficient litmus test of a model{'}s utility in clinical practice. A model that can be trusted for practice should have a correspondence between explanation and clinical determination, yet no prior research has examined the attention fidelity of these models and their effect on ground truth explanations. We introduce an evaluation design that focuses on the robustness and explainability of LMs in identifying Wellness Dimensions (WDs). We focus on two existing mental health and well-being datasets: (a) Multi-label Classification-based MultiWD, and (b) WellXplain for evaluating attention mechanism veracity against expert-labeled explanations. The labels are based on Halbert Dunn{'}s theory of wellness, which gives grounding to our evaluation. We reveal four surprising results about LMs/LLMs: (1) Despite their human-like capabilities, GPT-3.5/4 lag behind RoBERTa, and MedAlpaca, a fine-tuned LLM on WellXplain fails to deliver any remarkable improvements in performance or explanations. (2) Re-examining LMs{'} predictions based on a confidence-oriented loss function reveals a significant performance drop. (3) Across all LMs/LLMs, the alignment between attention and explanations remains low, with LLMs scoring a dismal 0.0. (4) Most mental health-specific LMs/LLMs overlook domain-specific knowledge and undervalue explanations, causing these discrepancies. This study highlights the need for further research into their consistency and explanations in mental health and well-being."}
{"Title": "Do Metadata and Appearance of the Retrieved Webpages Affect LLM's Reasoning in Retrieval-Augmented Generation?", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) answering questions with retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) can face conflicting evidence in the retrieved documents. While prior works study how textual features like perplexity and readability influence the persuasiveness of evidence, humans consider more than textual content when evaluating conflicting information on the web. In this paper, we focus on the following question: When two webpages contain conflicting information to answer a question, does non-textual information affect the LLM{'}s reasoning and answer? We consider three types of non-textual information: (1) the webpage{'}s publication time, (2) the source where the webpage is from, and (3) the appearance of the webpage. We give the LLM a Yes/No question and two conflicting webpages that support yes and no, respectively. We exchange the non-textual information in the two webpages to see if the LLMs tend to use the information from a newer, more reliable, and more visually appealing webpage. We find that changing the publication time of the webpage can change the answer for most LLMs, but changing the webpage{'}s source merely affects the LLM{'}s answer. We also reveal that the webpage{'}s appearance has a strong causal effect on Claude-3{'}s answers.The codes and datasets used in the paper are available at https://github.com/d223302/rag-metadata."}
{"Title": "Attribution Patching Outperforms Automated Circuit Discovery", "Abstract": "Automated interpretability research has recently attracted attention as a potential research direction that could scale explanations of neural network behavior to large models. Existing automated circuit discovery work applies activation patching to identify subnetworks responsible for solving specific tasks (circuits). In this work, we show that a simple method based on attribution patching outperforms all existing methods while requiring just two forward passes and a backward pass. We apply a linear approximation to activation patching to estimate the importance of each edge in the computational subgraph. Using this approximation, we prune the least important edges of the network. We survey the performance and limitations of this method, finding that averaged over all tasks our method has greater AUC from circuit recovery than other methods."}
{"Title": "Pruning for Protection: Increasing Jailbreak Resistance in Aligned LLMs Without Fine-Tuning", "Abstract": "This paper investigates the impact of model compression on the way Large Language Models (LLMs) process prompts, particularly concerning jailbreak resistance. We show that moderate WANDA pruning can enhance resistance to jailbreaking attacks without fine-tuning, while maintaining performance on standard benchmarks. To systematically evaluate this safety enhancement, we introduce a dataset of 225 harmful tasks across five categories. Our analysis of LLaMA-2 Chat, Vicuna 1.3, and Mistral Instruct v0.2 reveals that pruning benefits correlate with initial model safety levels. We interpret these results by examining changes in attention patterns and perplexity shifts, demonstrating that pruned models exhibit sharper attention and increased sensitivity to artificial jailbreak constructs. We extend our evaluation to the AdvBench harmful behavior tasks and the GCG attack method. We find that LLaMA-2 is much safer on AdvBench prompts than on our dataset when evaluated with manual jailbreak attempts, and that pruning is effective against both automated attacks and manual jailbreaking on Advbench."}
{"Title": "IvRA: A Framework to Enhance Attention-Based Explanations for Language Models with Interpretability-Driven Training", "Abstract": "Attention has long served as a foundational technique for generating explanations. With the recent developments made in Explainable AI (XAI), the multi-faceted nature of interpretability has become more apparent. Can attention, as an explanation method, be adapted to meet the diverse needs that our expanded understanding of interpretability demands? In this work, we aim to address this question by introducing IvRA, a framework designed to directly train a language model{'}s attention distribution through regularization to produce attribution explanations that align with interpretability criteria such as simulatability, faithfulness, and consistency. Our extensive experimental analysis demonstrates that IvRA outperforms existing methods in guiding language models to generate explanations that are simulatable, faithful, and consistent, in tandem with their predictions. Furthermore, we perform ablation studies to verify the robustness of IvRA across various experimental settings and to shed light on the interactions among different interpretability criteria."}
{"Title": "Counterfactuals As a Means for Evaluating Faithfulness of Attribution Methods in Autoregressive Language Models", "Abstract": "Despite the widespread adoption of autoregressive language models, explainability evaluation research has predominantly focused on span infilling and masked language models. Evaluating the faithfulness of an explanation method{---}how accurately it explains the inner workings and decision-making of the model{---}is challenging because it is difficult to separate the model from its explanation. Most faithfulness evaluation techniques corrupt or remove input tokens deemed important by a particular attribution (feature importance) method and observe the resulting change in the model{'}s output. However, for autoregressive language models, this approach creates out-of-distribution inputs due to their next-token prediction training objective. In this study, we propose a technique that leverages counterfactual generation to evaluate the faithfulness of attribution methods for autoregressive language models. Our technique generates fluent, in-distribution counterfactuals, making the evaluation protocol more reliable."}
{"Title": "Investigating Layer Importance in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have gained increasing attention due to their prominent ability to understand and process texts. Nevertheless, LLMs largely remain opaque. The lack of understanding of LLMs has obstructed the deployment in safety-critical scenarios and hindered the development of better models. In this study, we advance the understanding of LLM by investigating the significance of individual layers in LLMs. We propose an efficient sampling method to faithfully evaluate the importance of layers using Shapley values, a widely used explanation framework in feature attribution and data valuation. In addition, we conduct layer ablation experiments to assess the performance degradation resulting from the exclusion of specific layers. Our findings reveal the existence of cornerstone layers, wherein certain early layers can exhibit a dominant contribution over others. Removing one cornerstone layer leads to a drastic collapse of the model performance, often reducing it to random guessing. Conversely, removing non-cornerstone layers results in only marginal performance changes. This study identifies cornerstone layers in LLMs and underscores their critical role for future research."}
{"Title": "Mechanistic?", "Abstract": "The rise of the term {``}mechanistic interpretability{''} has accompanied increasing interest in understanding neural models{---}particularly language models. However, this jargon has also led to a fair amount of confusion. So, what does it mean to be mechanistic? We describe four uses of the term in interpretability research. The most narrow technical definition requires a claim of causality, while a broader technical definition allows for any exploration of a model{'}s internals. However, the term also has a narrow cultural definition describing a cultural movement. To understand this semantic drift, we present a history of the NLP interpretability community and the formation of the separate, parallel mechanistic interpretability community. Finally, we discuss the broad cultural definition{---}encompassing the entire field of interpretability{---}and why the traditional NLP interpretability community has come to embrace it. We argue that the polysemy of {``}mechanistic{''} is the product of a critical divide within the interpretability community."}
{"Title": "Toward the Evaluation of Large Language Models Considering Score Variance across Instruction Templates", "Abstract": "The natural language understanding (NLU) performance of large language models (LLMs) has been evaluated across various tasks and datasets. The existing evaluation methods, however, do not take into account the variance in scores due to differences in prompts, which leads to unfair evaluation and comparison of NLU performance. Moreover, evaluation designed for specific prompts is inappropriate for instruction tuning, which aims to perform well with any prompt. It is therefore necessary to find a way to measure NLU performance in a fair manner, considering score variance between different instruction templates. In this study, we provide English and Japanese cross-lingual datasets for evaluating the NLU performance of LLMs, which include multiple instruction templates for fair evaluation of each task, along with regular expressions to constrain the output format. Furthermore, we propose the Sharpe score as an evaluation metric that takes into account the variance in scores between templates. Comprehensive analysis of English and Japanese LLMs reveals that the high variance among templates has a significant impact on the fair evaluation of LLMs."}
{"Title": "Accelerating Sparse Autoencoder Training via Layer-Wise Transfer Learning in Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Sparse AutoEncoders (SAEs) have gained popularity as a tool for enhancing the interpretability of Large Language Models (LLMs). However, training SAEs can be computationally intensive, especially as model complexity grows. In this study, the potential of transfer learning to accelerate SAEs training is explored by capitalizing on the shared representations found across adjacent layers of LLMs. Our experimental results demonstrate that fine-tuning SAEs using pre-trained models from nearby layers not only maintains but often improves the quality of learned representations, while significantly accelerating convergence. These findings indicate that the strategic reuse of pretrained SAEs is a promising approach, particularly in settings where computational resources are constrained."}
{"Title": "Wrapper Boxes for Faithful Attribution of Model Predictions to Training Data", "Abstract": "Can we preserve the accuracy of neural models while also providing faithful explanations of model decisions to training data? We propose a {``}wrapper box{''} pipeline: training a neural model as usual and then using its learned feature representation in classic, interpretable models to perform prediction. Across seven language models of varying sizes, including four large language models (LLMs), two datasets at different scales, three classic models, and four evaluation metrics, we first show that the predictive performance of wrapper classic models is largely comparable to the original neural models. Because classic models are transparent, each model decision is determined by a known set of training examples that can be directly shown to users. Our pipeline thus preserves the predictive performance of neural language models while faithfully attributing classic model decisions to training data. Among other use cases, such attribution enables model decisions to be contested based on responsible training instances. Compared to prior work, our approach achieves higher coverage and correctness in identifying which training data to remove to change a model decision. To reproduce findings, our source code is online at: https://github.com/SamSoup/WrapperBox."}
{"Title": "Multi-property Steering of Large Language Models with Dynamic Activation Composition", "Abstract": "Activation steering methods were shown to be effective in conditioning language model generation by additively intervening over models{'} intermediate representations. However, the evaluation of these techniques has so far been limited to single conditioning properties and synthetic settings. In this work, we conduct a comprehensive evaluation of various activation steering strategies, highlighting the property-dependent nature of optimal parameters to ensure a robust effect throughout generation. To address this issue, we propose Dynamic Activation Composition, an information-theoretic approach to modulate the steering intensity of one or more properties throughout generation. Our experiments on multi-property steering show that our method successfully maintains high conditioning while minimizing the impact of conditioning on generation fluency."}
{"Title": "Probing Language Models on Their Knowledge Source", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) often encounter conflicts between their learned, internal (parametric knowledge, PK) and external knowledge provided during inference (contextual knowledge, CK). Understanding how LLMs models prioritize one knowledge source over the other remains a challenge. In this paper, we propose a novel probing framework to explore the mechanisms governing the selection between PK and CK in LLMs. Using controlled prompts designed to contradict the model{'}s PK, we demonstrate that specific model activations are indicative of the knowledge source employed. We evaluate this framework on various LLMs of different sizes and demonstrate that mid-layer activations, particularly those related to relations in the input, are crucial in predicting knowledge source selection, paving the way for more reliable models capable of handling knowledge conflicts effectively."}
{"Title": "Words That Stick: Using Keyword Cohesion to Improve Text Segmentation", "Abstract": "Text Segmentation (TS) is the idea of segmenting bodies of text into coherent blocks, mostly defined by the topics each segment contains. Historically, techniques in this area have been unsupervised, with more success recently coming from supervised methods instead. Although these approaches see better performance, they require training data and upfront training time. We propose a new method called Coherence, where we use strong sentence embeddings to pull representational keywords as the main constructor of sentences when comparing them to one another. Additionally, we include a storage of previously found keywords for the purposes of creating a more accurate segment representation instead of just the immediate sentence in question. With our system, we show improved results over current state-of-the-art unsupervised techniques when analyzed using Pk and WindowDiff scores. Because its unsupervised, Coherence requires no fine-tuning."}
{"Title": "Investigating large language models for their competence in extracting grammatically sound sentences from transcribed noisy utterances", "Abstract": "Selectively processing noisy utterances while effectively disregarding speech-specific elements poses no considerable challenge for humans, as they exhibit remarkable cognitive abilities to separate semantically significant content from speech-specific noise (i.e. filled pauses, disfluencies, and restarts). These abilities may be driven by mechanisms based on acquired grammatical rules that compose abstract syntactic-semantic structures within utterances. Segments without syntactic and semantic significance are consistently disregarded in these structures. The structures, in tandem with lexis, likely underpin language comprehension and thus facilitate effective communication.In our study, grounded in linguistically motivated experiments, we investigate whether large language models (LLMs) can effectively perform analogical speech comprehension tasks. In particular, we examine the ability of LLMs to extract well-structured utterances from transcriptions of noisy dialogues. We conduct two evaluation experiments in the Polish language scenario, using a dataset presumably unfamiliar to LLMs to mitigate the risk of data contamination. Our results show that not all extracted utterances are correctly structured, indicating that either LLMs do not fully acquire syntactic-semantic rules or they acquire them but cannot apply them effectively. We conclude that the ability of LLMs to comprehend noisy utterances is still relatively superficial compared to human proficiency in processing them."}
{"Title": "Multi-Cultural Norm Base: Frame-based Norm Discovery in Multi-Cultural Settings", "Abstract": "Sociocultural norms serve as guiding principles for personal conduct in social interactions within a particular society or culture. The study of norm discovery has seen significant development over the last few years, with various interesting approaches. However, it is difficult to adopt these approaches to discover norms in a new culture, as they rely either on human annotations or real-world dialogue contents. This paper presents a robust automatic norm discovery pipeline, which utilizes the cultural knowledge of GPT-3.5 Turbo (ChatGPT) along with several social factors. By using these social factors and ChatGPT, our pipeline avoids the use of human dialogues that tend to be limited to specific scenarios, as well as the use of human annotations that make it difficult and costly to enlarge the dataset. The resulting database - Multi-cultural Norm Base (MNB) - covers 6 distinct cultures, with over 150k sociocultural norm statements in total. A state-of-the-art Large Language Model (LLM), Llama 3, fine-tuned with our proposed dataset, shows remarkable results on various downstream tasks, outperforming models fine-tuned on other datasets significantly."}
{"Title": "Lossy Context Surprisal Predicts Task-Dependent Patterns in Relative Clause Processing", "Abstract": "English relative clauses are a critical test case for theories of syntactic processing. Expectation- and memory-based accounts make opposing predictions, and behavioral experiments have found mixed results. We present a technical extension of Lossy Context Surprisal (LCS) and use it to model relative clause processing in three behavioral experiments. LCS predicts key results at distinct retention rates, showing that task-dependent memory demands can account for discrepant behavioral patterns in the literature."}
{"Title": "Global-Pruner: A Stable and Efficient Pruner for Retraining-Free Pruning of Encoder-Based Language Models", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) have achieved significant success in complex tasks across various domains, but they come with high computational costs and inference latency issues. Pruning, as an effective method, can significantly reduce inference costs. However, current pruning algorithms for encoder-based language models often focus on locally optimal solutions, neglecting a comprehensive exploration of the global solution space. This oversight can lead to instability in the solution process, thereby affecting the overall performance of the model. To address these challenges, we propose a structured pruning algorithm named G-Pruner (Global Pruner), comprising two integral components: PPOM (Proximal Policy Optimization Mask) and CG{\\mbox{$^2$}}MT (Conjugate Gradient Squared Mask Tuning), utilizing a global optimization strategy. This strategy not only eliminates the need for retraining but also ensures the algorithm{'}s stability and adaptability to environmental changes, effectively addressing the issue of focusing solely on immediate optima while neglecting long-term effects. This method is evaluated on the GLUE and SQuAD benchmarks using BERTBASE and DistilBERT models. The experimental results indicate that without any retraining, G-Pruner achieves significant accuracy improvements on the SQuAD$_{2.0}$ task with a FLOPs constraint of 60{\\%}, demonstrating a 6.02{\\%} increase in F1 score compared with baseline algorithms."}
{"Title": "Transformer verbatim in-context retrieval across time and scale", "Abstract": "To predict upcoming text, language models must in some cases retrieve in-context information verbatim. In this report, we investigated how the ability of language models to retrieve arbitrary in-context nouns developed during training (across time) and as language models trained on the same dataset increase in size (across scale). We then asked whether learning of in-context retrieval correlates with learning of more challenging zero-shot benchmarks. Furthermore, inspired by semantic effects in human short-term memory, we evaluated the retrieval with respect to a major semantic component of target nouns, namely whether they denote a concrete or abstract entity, as rated by humans. We show that verbatim in-context retrieval developed in a sudden transition early in the training process, after about 1{\\%} of the training tokens. This was observed across model sizes (from 14M and up to 12B parameters), and the transition occurred slightly later for the two smallest models. We further found that the development of verbatim in-context retrieval is positively correlated with the learning of zero-shot benchmarks. Around the transition point, all models showed the advantage of retrieving concrete nouns as opposed to abstract nouns. In all but two smallest models, the advantage dissipated away toward the end of training."}
{"Title": "EditEval: An Instruction-Based Benchmark for Text Improvements", "Abstract": "Evaluation of text generation to date has primarily focused on content created sequentially, rather than improvements on a piece of text. Writing, however, is naturally an iterative and incremental process that requires expertise in different modular skills such as fixing outdated information or making the writing style more consistent. Even so, comprehensive evaluation of a model{'}s capacity to perform these skills and the ability to edit remains sparse. This work introduces EditEval: An instruction-based, benchmark and evaluation suite that leverages high-quality existing and new datasets in English for the automatic evaluation of editing capabilities, such as making text more cohesive and paraphrasing. We evaluate several pre-trained models, which shows that InstructGPT and PEER on average perform the best, but that most baselines fall below the supervised state-of-the-art, particularly when neutralizing and updating information. Our analysis also shows that commonly used metrics for editing tasks do not always correlate well, and that prompts leading to the strongest performance do not necessarily elicit strong performance across different models. Through the release of this benchmark (code and data available at https://github.com/facebookresearch/EditEval) and a publicly available leaderboard challenge, we hope to unlock future work on developing models more capable of controllable and iterative editing."}
{"Title": "An Empirical Comparison of Vocabulary Expansion and Initialization Approaches For Language Models", "Abstract": "Language Models (LMs) excel in natural language processing tasks for English but show reduced performance in most other languages. This problem is commonly tackled by continually pre-training and fine-tuning these models for said languages. A significant issue in this process is the limited vocabulary coverage in the original model{'}s tokenizer, leading to inadequate representation of new languages and necessitating an expansion of the tokenizer. The initialization of the embeddings corresponding to new vocabulary items presents a further challenge. Current strategies require cross-lingual embeddings and lack a solid theoretical foundation as well as comparisons with strong baselines. In this paper, we first establish theoretically that initializing within the convex hull of existing embeddings is a good initialization, followed by a novel but simple approach, \\textit{Constrained Word2Vec (CW2V)}, which does not require cross-lingual embeddings. Our study evaluates different initialization methods for expanding RoBERTa and LLaMA 2 across four languages and five tasks. The results show that CW2V performs equally well or even better than more advanced techniques. Additionally, simpler approaches like multivariate initialization perform on par with these advanced methods indicating that efficient large-scale multilingual continued pretraining can be achieved even with simpler initialization methods."}
{"Title": "Critical Questions Generation: Motivation and Challenges", "Abstract": "The development of Large Language Models (LLMs) has brought impressive performances on mitigation strategies against misinformation, such as counterargument generation. However, LLMs are still seriously hindered by outdated knowledge and by their tendency to generate hallucinated content. In order to circumvent these issues, we propose a new task, namely, Critical Questions Generation, consisting of processing an argumentative text to generate the critical questions (CQs) raised by it.In argumentation theory CQs are tools designed to lay bare the blind spots of an argument by pointing at the information it could be missing.Thus, instead of trying to deploy LLMs to produce knowledgeable and relevant counterarguments, we use them to question arguments, without requiring any external knowledge.Research on CQs Generation using LLMs requires a reference dataset for large scale experimentation. Thus, in this work we investigate two complementary methods to create such a resource: (i) instantiating CQs templates as defined by Walton{'}s argumentation theory and (ii), using LLMs as CQs generators. By doing so, we contribute with a procedure to establish what is a valid CQ and conclude that, while LLMs are reasonable CQ generators, they still have a wide margin for improvement in this task."}
{"Title": "Information Association for Language Model Updating by Mitigating LM-Logical Discrepancy", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) struggle with providing current information due to the outdated pre-training data. Existing methods for updating LLMs, such as knowledge editing and continual fine-tuning, have significant drawbacks in generalizability of new information and the requirements on structured updating corpus. We identify the core challenge behind these drawbacks: the LM-logical discrepancy featuring the difference between language modeling probabilities and logical probabilities. To evaluate and address the core challenge, we propose a new task formulation of the information updating task that only requires the provision of an unstructured updating corpus and evaluates the performance of information updating on the generalizability to question-answer pairs pertaining to the updating information.We further propose a novel and effective pipeline approach for the task, highlighting a self-prompting-based question-answer generation process and a associative distillation methods to bridge the LM-logical discrepancy.We develop two datasets for evaluation, one sourced from news articles published in March and April 2023, and the other from the Natural Questions benchmark.Experimental results demonstrate the superiority of our approach, significantly increasing the factual consistency score (on a scale from 0 to 1) by up to 0.16. Furthermore, our method effectively mitigates forgetting utilizing a compact replay buffer with only 2.3{\\%} of the training tokens."}
{"Title": "Causal ATE Mitigates Unintended Bias in Controlled Text Generation", "Abstract": "We study attribute control in language models through the method of Causal Average Treatment Effect (Causal ATE). Existing methodsfor the attribute control task in Language Models(LMs) check for the co-occurrence of words in a sentence with the attribute of interest, and control for them. However, spurious correlation of the words with the attribute in the training dataset, can cause models to hallucinate the presence of the attribute when presented with the spurious correlate during inference. We show that the simple perturbation-based method of Causal ATE removes this unintended effect. Specifically, we ground it in the problem of toxicity mitigation, where a significant challenge lies in the inadvertent bias that often emerges towards protected groups post detoxification. We show that this unintended bias can be solved by the use of the Causal ATE metric. We provide experimental validations for our claims and release our code (anonymously) here: [github.com/causalate-mitigates-bias](https://github.com/causalate-mitigates-bias/causal-ate-mitigates-bias)."}
{"Title": "On Functional Competence of LLMs for Linguistic Disambiguation", "Abstract": "We study some Large Language Models to explore their deficiencies in resolving sense ambiguities. In this connection, we evaluate their performance on well-known word sense disambiguation datasets. Word Sense Disambiguation (WSD) has been a long-standing NLP problem, which has given rise to many evaluation datasets and models over the decades. Recently the emergence of Large Language Models (LLM) raises much hope in improving accuracy. In this work, we evaluate word sense disambiguation capabilities of four LLMs: OpenAI{'}s ChatGPT-3.5, Mistral{'}s 7b parameter model, Meta{'}s Llama 70b, and Google{'}s Gemini Pro. We evaluate many well-established datasets containing a variety of texts and senses on these. After observing the performances of some datasets, we selectively study some failure cases and identify the reasons for failures. We explore human judgments that would correct these failures. Our findings suggest that many failure cases are related to a lack of world knowledge and the reasoning to amalgamate this knowledge rather than the lack of linguistic knowledge. We categorize the judgments so that the next generation of LLMs can improve by incorporating deeper world knowledge and reasoning. We conclude that word sense disambiguation could serve as a guide for probing the reasoning power of LLMs to measure their functional competency. We also list the accuracy of these datasets. We find that on many occasions, accuracy drops to below 70{\\%}, which is much less than that of well-performing existing models."}
{"Title": "AIStorySimilarity: Quantifying Story Similarity Using Narrative for Search, IP Infringement, and Guided Creativity", "Abstract": "Stories are central for interpreting experiences, communicating, and influencing each other via films, medical, media, and other narratives. Quantifying the similarity between stories has numerous applications including detecting IP infringement, detecting hallucinations, search/recommendation engines, and guiding human-AI collaborations. Despite this, traditional NLP text similarity metrics are limited to short text distance metrics like n-gram overlaps and embeddings. Larger texts require preprocessing with significant information loss through paraphrasing or multi-step decomposition. This paper introduces AIStorySimilarity, a novel benchmark to measure the semantic distance between long-text stories based on core structural elements drawn from narrative theory and script writing. Based on four narrative elements (characters, plot, setting, and themes) as well 31 sub-features within these, we use a SOTA LLM (gpt-3.5-turbo) to extract and evaluate the semantic similarity of a diverse set of major Hollywood movies. In addition, we compare human evaluation with story similarity scores computed three ways: extracting elements from film scripts before evaluation (Elements), directly evaluating entire scripts (Scripts), and extracting narrative elements from the parametric memory of SOTA LLMs without any provided scripts (GenAI). To the best of our knowledge, AIStorySimilarity is the first benchmark to measure long-text story similarity using a comprehensive approach to narrative theory. Code and data are available at https://github.com/jon-chun/AIStorySimiliarity."}
{"Title": "SPAWNing Structural Priming Predictions from a Cognitively Motivated Parser", "Abstract": "Structural priming is a widely used psycholinguistic paradigm to study human sentence representations. In this work we introduce SPAWN, a cognitively motivated parser that can generate quantitative priming predictions from contemporary theories in syntax which assume a lexicalized grammar. By generating and testing priming predictions from competing theoretical accounts, we can infer which assumptions from syntactic theory are useful for characterizing the representations humans build when processing sentences. As a case study, we use SPAWN to generate priming predictions from two theories (Whiz-Deletion and Participial-Phase) which make different assumptions about the structure of English relative clauses. By modulating the reanalysis mechanism that the parser uses and strength of the parser{'}s prior knowledge, we generated nine sets of predictions from each of the two theories. Then, we tested these predictions using a novel web-based comprehension-to-production priming paradigm. We found that while the some of the predictions from the Participial-Phase theory aligned with human behavior, none of the predictions from the the Whiz-Deletion theory did, thus suggesting that the Participial-Phase theory might better characterize human relative clause representations."}
{"Title": "Global Learning with Triplet Relations in Abstractive Summarization", "Abstract": "Abstractive summarization models learned with token-level maximum likelihood estimation suffer from exposure bias, that the condition for predicting the next token is discrepant during training and inference. Existing solutions bridge this gap by learning to estimate semantic or lexical qualities of a candidate summary from the global view, namely global learning (GL), yet ignore maintaining rational triplet-relations among document, reference summary, and candidate summaries, e.g., the candidate and reference summaries should have a similar faithfulness degree judging by a source document. In this paper, we propose an iterative autoregressive summarization paradigm - IARSum, which fuses the learning of triplet relations into a GL framework and further enhances summarization performance. Specifically, IARSum develops a dual-encoder network to enable the simultaneous input of a document and its candidate (or reference) summary. On this basis, it learns to 1) model the relative semantics defined over tuples (candidate, document) and (reference, document) respectively and balance them; 2) reduce lexical differences between candidate and reference summaries. Furthermore, IARSum iteratively reprocesses a generated candidate at inference time to ground higher quality. We conduct extensive experiments on two widely used datasets to test our method, and IARSum shows the new or matched state-of-the-art on diverse metrics."}
{"Title": "TpT-ADE: Transformer Based Two-Phase ADE Extraction", "Abstract": "Extracting adverse reactions to medications or treatments is a crucial activity in the biomedical domain. The task involves identifying mentions of drugs and their adverse effects/events in raw text, which is challenging due to the unstructured nature of clinical narratives. In this paper, we propose TpT-ADE, a novel joint two-phase transformer model combined with natural language processing (NLP) techniques, to identify adverse events (AEs) caused by drugs. In the first phase of TpT-ADE, entities are extracted and are grounded with their standard terms using the Unified Medical Language System (UMLS) knowledge base. In the second phase, entity and relation classification is performed to determine the presence of a relationship between the drug and AE pairs. TpT-ADE also identifies the intensity of AE entities by constructing a parts-of-speech (POS) embedding model. Unlike previous approaches that use complex classifiers, TpT-ADE employs a shallow neural network and yet outperforms the state-of-the-art methods on the standard ADE corpus."}
{"Title": "The Effect of Surprisal on Reading Times in Information Seeking and Repeated Reading", "Abstract": "The effect of surprisal on processing difficulty has been a central topic of investigation in psycholinguistics. Here, we use eyetracking data to examine three language processing regimes that are common in daily life but have not been addressed with respect to this question: information seeking, repeated processing, and the combination of the two. Using standard regime-agnostic surprisal estimates we find that the prediction of surprisal theory regarding the presence of a linear effect of surprisal on processing times, extends to these regimes. However, when using surprisal estimates from regime-specific contexts that match the contexts and tasks given to humans, we find that in information seeking, such estimates do not improve the predictive power of processing times compared to standard surprisals. Further, regime-specific contexts yield near zero surprisal estimates with no predictive power for processing times in repeated reading. These findings point to misalignments of task and memory representations between humans and current language models, and question the extent to which such models can be used for estimating cognitively relevant quantities. We further discuss theoretical challenges posed by these results."}
{"Title": "Revisiting Hierarchical Text Classification: Inference and Metrics", "Abstract": "Hierarchical text classification (HTC) is the task of assigning labels to a text within a structured space organized as a hierarchy. Recent works treat HTC as a conventional multilabel classification problem, therefore evaluating it as such. We instead propose to evaluate models based on specifically designed hierarchical metrics and we demonstrate the intricacy of metric choice and prediction inference method. We introduce a new challenging dataset and we evaluate fairly, recent sophisticated models, comparing them with a range of simple but strong baselines, including a new theoretically motivated loss. Finally, we show that those baselines are very often competitive with the latest models. This highlights the importance of carefully considering the evaluation methodology when proposing new methods for HTC"}
{"Title": "NeLLCom-X: A Comprehensive Neural-Agent Framework to Simulate Language Learning and Group Communication", "Abstract": "Recent advances in computational linguistics include simulating the emergence of human-like languages with interacting neural network agents, starting from sets of random symbols. The recently introduced NeLLCom framework (Lian et al., 2023) allows agents to first learn an artificial language and then use it to communicate, with the aim of studying the emergence of specific linguistics properties. We extend this framework (NeLLCom-X) by introducing more realistic role-alternating agents and group communication in order to investigate the interplay between language learnability, communication pressures, and group size effects. We validate NeLLCom-X by replicating key findings from prior research simulating the emergence of a word-order/case-marking trade-off. Next, we investigate how interaction affects linguistic convergence and emergence of the trade-off. The novel framework facilitates future simulations of diverse linguistic aspects, emphasizing the importance of interaction and group dynamics in language evolution."}
{"Title": "A Novel Instruction Tuning Method for Vietnamese Mathematical Reasoning using Trainable Open-Source Large Language Models", "Abstract": "This study introduces Simple Reasoning with Code (SiRC), a novel instruction fine-tuning method for solving mathematical reasoning problems, particularly effective for Vietnamese, which is considered a low-resource language. Specifically, solving mathematical problems requires strategic and logical reasoning, which remains challenging in this research area. This paper presents a simple yet effective instruction fine-tuning method for mathematical reasoning. Unlike previous approaches, our proposed method effectively combines chain-of-thought reasoning with code transfer methods without requiring a sophisticated inference procedure. Furthermore, we focus on exploiting small open-source large language models (LLMs) for the Vietnamese language. In this regard, we first introduce a trainable Vietnamese math reasoning dataset, which is named ViMath-InstructCode. The proposed dataset is then used for fine-tuning open-source LLMs (e.g., less than 10 billion parameters). Experiments conducted on our custom ViMath-Bench dataset, the largest benchmarking dataset focusing on Vietnamese mathematical problems, indicate the promising results of our proposed method. Our source code and dataset are available for further exploitation."}
{"Title": "Generalizations across filler-gap dependencies in neural language models", "Abstract": "Humans develop their grammars by making structural generalizations from finite input. We ask how filler-gap dependencies (FGDs), which share a structural generalization despite diverse surface forms, might arise from the input. We explicitly control the input to a neural language model (NLM) to uncover whether the model posits a shared representation for FGDs. We show that while NLMs do have success differentiating grammatical from ungrammatical FGDs, they rely on superficial properties of the input, rather than on a shared generalization. Our work highlights the need for specific linguistic inductive biases to model language acquisition."}
{"Title": "Of Models and Men: Probing Neural Networks for Agreement Attraction with Psycholinguistic Data", "Abstract": "Interpretability studies have played an important role in the field of NLP. They focus on the problems of how models encode information or, for instance, whether linguistic capabilities allow them to prefer grammatical sentences to ungrammatical. Recently, several studies examined whether the models demonstrate patterns similar to humans and whether they are sensitive to the phenomena of interference like humans{'} grammaticality judgements, including the phenomenon of agreement attraction.In this paper, we probe BERT and GPT models on the syntactic phenomenon of agreement attraction in Russian using the psycholinguistic data with syncretism. Working on the language with syncretism between some plural and singular forms allows us to differentiate between the effects of the surface form and of the underlying grammatical feature. Thus we can further investigate models{'} sensitivity to this phenomenon and examine if the patterns of their behaviour are similar to human patterns. Moreover, we suggest a new way of comparing models{'} and humans{'} responses via statistical testing. We show that there are some similarities between models{'} and humans{'} results, while GPT is somewhat more aligned with human responses than BERT. Finally, preliminary results suggest that surface form syncretism influences attraction, perhaps more so than grammatical form syncretism."}
{"Title": "Is Structure Dependence Shaped for Efficient Communication?: A Case Study on Coordination", "Abstract": "Natural language exhibits various universal properties.But why do these universals exist?One explanation is that they arise from functional pressures to achieve \\textit{efficient communication}, a view which attributes cross-linguistic properties to domain-general cognitive abilities.This hypothesis has successfully addressed some syntactic universal properties such as compositionality and Greenbergian word order universals.However, more abstract syntactic universals have not been explored from the perspective of efficient communication.Among such universals, the most notable one is \\textit{structure dependence}, that is, grammar-internal operations crucially depend on hierarchical representations.This property has traditionally been taken to be central to natural language and to involve domain-specific knowledge irreducible to communicative efficiency. In this paper, we challenge the conventional view by investigating whether structure dependence realizes efficient communication, focusing on coordinate structures.We design three types of artificial languages: (i) one with a structure-dependent reduction operation, which is similar to natural language, (ii) one without any reduction operations, and (iii) one with a linear (rather than structure-dependent) reduction operation.We quantify the communicative efficiency of these languages.The results demonstrate that the language with the structure-dependent reduction operation is significantly more communicatively efficient than the counterfactual languages.This suggests that the existence of structure-dependent properties can be explained from the perspective of efficient communication."}
{"Title": "Large Language Model Recall Uncertainty is Modulated by the Fan Effect", "Abstract": "This paper evaluates whether large language models (LLMs) exhibit cognitive fan effects, similar to those discovered by Anderson in humans, after being pre-trained on human textual data. We conduct two sets of in-context recall experiments designed to elicit fan effects. Consistent with human results, we find that LLM recall uncertainty, measured via token probability, is influenced by the fan effect. Our results show that removing uncertainty disrupts the observed effect. The experiments suggest the fan effect is consistent whether the fan value is induced in-context or in the pre-training data. Finally, these findings provide in-silico evidence that fan effects and typicality are expressions of the same phenomena."}
{"Title": "Continuous Attentive Multimodal Prompt Tuning for Few-Shot Multimodal Sarcasm Detection", "Abstract": "With the steep rise in multimodal content on social media, multimodal sarcasm detection has gained widespread attention from research communities. Existing studies depend on large-scale data, which is challenging to obtain and expensive to annotate. Thus, investigating this problem in a few-shot scenario is required. Overtly complex multimodal models are prone to overfitting on in-domain data, which hampers their performance on out-of-distribution (OOD) data. To address these issues, we propose Continuous Attentive Multimodal Prompt Tuning model (CAMP), that leverages the prompt tuning paradigm to handle few-shot multimodal sarcasm detection. To overcome the siloed learning process of continuous prompt tokens, we design a novel, continuous multimodal attentive prompt where the continuous tokens intricately engage with both image and text tokens, enabling the assimilation of knowledge from different input modalities. Experimental results indicate that our method outperforms other multimodal baseline methods in the few-shot setting and OOD scenarios."}
{"Title": "Aligning Alignments: Do Colexification and Distributional Similarity Align as Measures of cross-lingual Lexical Alignment?", "Abstract": "The data-driven investigation of the extent to which lexicons of different languages align has mostly fallen into one of two categories:colexification-based and distributional. The two approaches are grounded in distinct methodologies, operate on different assumptions, and are used in diverse ways.This raises two important questions: (a) are there settings in which the predictions of the two approaches can be directly compared? and if so, (b) what is the extent of the similarity and what are its determinants? We offer novel operationalizations for the two approaches in a manner that allows for their direct comparison, and conduct a comprehensive analysis on a diverse set of 16 languages.Our analysis is carried out at different levels of granularity. At the word-level, the two methods present different results across the board. However, intriguingly, at the level of semantic domains (e.g., kinship, quantity), the two methods show considerable convergence in their predictions.A detailed comparison of the metrics against a carefully validated dataset of kinship terms shows that the distributional methods likely capture a more fine-grained alignment than their counterpart colexification-based methods, and may thus be more suited for settings where fewer languages are evaluated."}
{"Title": "Text2Afford: Probing Object Affordance Prediction abilities of Language Models solely from Text", "Abstract": "We investigate the knowledge of object affordances in pre-trained language models (LMs) and pre-trained Vision-Language models (VLMs).A growing body of literature shows that PTLMs fail inconsistently and non-intuitively, demonstrating a lack of reasoning and grounding. To take a first step toward quantifying the effect of grounding (or lack thereof), we curate a novel and comprehensive dataset of object affordances {--} Text2Afford, characterized by 15 affordance classes. Unlike affordance datasets collected in vision and language domains, we annotate in-the-wild sentences with objects and affordances. Experimental results reveal that PTLMs exhibit limited reasoning abilities when it comes to uncommon object affordances. We also observe that pre-trained VLMs do not necessarily capture object affordances effectively. Through few-shot fine-tuning, we demonstrate improvement in affordance knowledge in PTLMs and VLMs. Our research contributes a novel dataset for language grounding tasks, and presents insights into LM capabilities, advancing the understanding of object affordances."}
{"Title": "How Are Metaphors Processed by Language Models? The Case of Analogies", "Abstract": "The ability to compare by analogy, metaphorically or not, lies at the core of how humans understand the world and communicate. In this paper, we study the likelihood of metaphoric outputs, and the capability of a wide range of pretrained transformer-based language models to identify metaphors from other types of analogies, including anomalous ones. In particular, we are interested in discovering whether language models recognise metaphorical analogies equally well as other types of analogies, and whether the model size has an impact on this ability. The results show that there are relevant differences using perplexity as a proxy, with the larger models reducing the gap when it comes to analogical processing, and for distinguishing metaphors from incorrect analogies. This behaviour does not result in increased difficulties for larger generative models in identifying metaphors in comparison to other types of analogies from anomalous sentences in a zero-shot generation setting, when perplexity values of metaphoric and non-metaphoric analogies are similar."}
{"Title": "Further Compressing Distilled Language Models via Frequency-aware Partial Sparse Coding of Embeddings", "Abstract": "Although pre-trained language models (PLMs) are effective for natural language understanding (NLU) tasks, they demand a huge computational resource, thus preventing us from deploying them on edge devices. Researchers have therefore applied compression techniques for neural networks, such as pruning, quantization, and knowledge distillation, to the PLMs. Although these generic techniques can reduce the number of internal parameters of hidden layers in the PLMs, the embedding layers tied to the tokenizer arehard to compress, occupying a non-negligible portion of the compressed model. In this study, aiming to further compress PLMs reduced by the generic techniques, we exploit frequency-aware sparse coding to compress the embedding layers of the PLMs fine-tuned to downstream tasks. To minimize the impact of the compression on the accuracy, we retain the embeddings of common tokens as they are and use them to reconstruct embeddings of rare tokens by locally linear mapping. Experimental results on the GLUE and JGLUE benchmarks for language understanding in English and Japanese confirmed that our method can further compress the fine-tuned DistilBERT models models while maintaining accuracy."}
{"Title": "Translating Across Cultures: LLMs for Intralingual Cultural Adaptation", "Abstract": "LLMs are increasingly being deployed for multilingual applications and have demonstrated impressive translation capabilities between several low and high-resource languages. An aspect of translation that often gets overlooked is that of cultural adaptation, or modifying source culture references to suit the target culture. While specialized translation models still outperform LLMs on the machine translation task when viewed from the lens of correctness, they are not sensitive to cultural differences often requiring manual correction. LLMs on the other hand have a rich reservoir of cultural knowledge embedded within its parameters that can be potentially exploited for such applications. In this paper, we define the task of cultural adaptation and create an evaluation framework to evaluate the performance of modern LLMs for cultural adaptation and analyze their cross-cultural knowledge while connecting related concepts across different cultures. We also analyze possible issues with automatic adaptation. We hope that this task will offer more insight into the cultural understanding of LLMs and their creativity in cross-cultural scenarios."}
{"Title": "Explaining the Hardest Errors of Contextual Embedding Based Classifiers", "Abstract": "We seek to explain the causes of the misclassification of the most challenging documents, namely those that no classifier using state-of-the-art, very semantically-separable contextual embedding representations managed to predict accurately. To do so, we propose a taxonomy of incorrect predictions, which we used to perform qualitative human evaluation. We posed two (research) questions, considering three sentiment datasets in two different domains {--} movie and product reviews. Evaluators with two different backgrounds evaluated documents by comparing the predominant sentiment assigned by the model to the label in the gold dataset in order to decide on a likely misclassification reason. Based on a high inter-evaluator agreement (81.7{\\%}), we observed significant differences between the product and movie review domains, such as the prevalence of ambivalence in product reviews and sarcasm in movie reviews. Our analysis also revealed an unexpectedly high rate of incorrect labeling in the gold dataset (up to 33{\\%}) and a significant amount of incorrect prediction by the model due to a series of linguistic phenomena (including amplified words, contrastive markers, comparative sentences, and references to world knowledge). Overall, our taxonomy and methodology allow us to explain between 80{\\%}-85{\\%} of the errors with high confidence (agreement) {--} enabling us to point out where future efforts to improve models should be concentrated."}
{"Title": "A Multimodal Large Language Model \u201cForesees\u201d Objects Based on Verb Information but Not Gender", "Abstract": "This study employs the classical psycholinguistics paradigm, the visual world eye-tracking paradigm (VWP), to explore the predictive capabilities of LLAVA, a multimodal large language model (MLLM), and compare them with human anticipatory gaze behaviors. Specifically, we examine the attention weight distributions of LLAVA when presented with visual displays and English sentences containing verb and gender cues. Our findings reveal that LLAVA, like humans, can predictively attend to objects relevant to verbs, but fails to demonstrate gender-based anticipatory attention. Layer-wise analysis indicates that the middle layers of the model are more related to predictive attention than the early or late layers. This study is pioneering in applying psycholinguistic paradigms to compare the multimodal predictive attention of humans and MLLMs, revealing both similarities and differences between them."}
{"Title": "PRACT: Optimizing Principled Reasoning and Acting of LLM Agent", "Abstract": "We introduce the Principled Reasoning and Acting (PRAct) framework, a novel method for learning and enforcing action principles from trajectory data. Central to our approach is the use of text gradients from a reflection and optimization engine to derive these action principles. To adapt action principles to specific task requirements, we propose a new optimization framework, Reflective Principle Optimization (RPO). After execution, RPO employs a reflector to critique current action principles and an optimizer to update them accordingly.We investigate the RPO framework under two scenarios: Reward-RPO, which uses environmental rewards for reflection, and Self-RPO, which conducts self-reflection without external rewards. Additionally, we developed two RPO methods, RPO-Traj and RPO-Batch, to adapt to different settings.Experimental results across four environments demonstrate that the PRAct agent, leveraging the RPO framework, can effectively learn and apply action principles to enhance performance."}
{"Title": "Image-conditioned human language comprehension and psychometric benchmarking of visual language models", "Abstract": "Large language model (LLM)s{'} next-word predictions have shown impressive performance in capturing human expectations during real-time language comprehension. This finding has enabled a line of research on psychometric benchmarking of LLMs against human language-comprehension data in order to reverse-engineer humans{'} linguistic subjective probability distributions and representations. However, to date, this work has exclusively involved unimodal (language-only) comprehension data, whereas much human language use takes place in rich multimodal contexts. Here we extend psychometric benchmarking to visual language models (VLMs). We develop a novel experimental paradigm, $\\textit{Image-Conditioned Maze Reading}$, in which participants first view an image and then read a text describing an image within the Maze paradigm, yielding word-by-word reaction-time measures with high signal-to-noise ratio and good localization of expectation-driven language processing effects. We find a large facilitatory effect of correct image context on language comprehension, not only for words such as concrete nouns that are directly grounded in the image but even for ungrounded words in the image descriptions. Furthermore, we find that VLM surprisal captures most to all of this effect. We use these findings to benchmark a range of VLMs, showing that models with lower perplexity generally have better psychometric performance, but that among the best VLMs tested perplexity and psychometric performance dissociate. Overall, our work offers new possibilities for connecting psycholinguistics with multimodal LLMs for both scientific and engineering goals."}
{"Title": "Self-supervised speech representations display some human-like cross-linguistic perceptual abilities", "Abstract": "State of the art models in automatic speech recognition have shown remarkable improvements due to modern self-supervised (SSL) transformer-based architectures such as wav2vec 2.0 (Baevski et al., 2020). However, how these models encode phonetic information is still not well understood. We explore whether SSL speech models display a linguistic property that characterizes human speech perception: language specificity. We show that while wav2vec 2.0 displays an overall language specificity effect when tested on Hindi vs. English, it does not resemble human speech perception when tested on finer-grained differences in Hindi speech contrasts."}
{"Title": "One-Vs-Rest Neural Network English Grapheme Segmentation: A Linguistic Perspective", "Abstract": "Grapheme-to-Phoneme (G2P) correspondences form foundational frameworks of tasks such as text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis or automatic speech recognition. The G2P process involves taking words in their written form and generating their pronunciation. In this paper, we critique the status quo definition of a grapheme, currently a forced alignment process relating a single character to either a phoneme or a blank unit, that underlies the majority of modern approaches. We develop a linguistically-motivated redefinition from simple concepts such as vowel and consonant count and word length and offer a proof-of-concept implementation based on a multi-binary neural classification task. Our model achieves state-of-the-art results with a 31.86{\\%} Word Error Rate on a standard benchmark, while generating linguistically meaningful grapheme segmentations."}
{"Title": "CrowdCounter: A benchmark type-specific multi-target counterspeech dataset", "Abstract": "Counterspeech presents a viable alternative to banning or suspending users for hate speech while upholding freedom of expression. However, writing effective counterspeech is challenging for moderators/users. Hence, developing suggestion tools for writing counterspeech is the need of the hour. One critical challenge in developing such a tool is the lack of quality and diversity of the responses in the existing datasets. Hence, we introduce a new dataset - CrowdCounter containing 3,425 hate speech-counterspeech pairs spanning six different counterspeech types (empathy, humor, questioning, warning, shaming, contradiction), which is the first of its kind. The design of our annotation platform itself encourages annotators to write type-specific, non-redundant and high-quality counterspeech. We evaluate two frameworks for generating counterspeech responses - vanilla and type-controlled prompts - across four large language models. In terms of metrics, we evaluate the responses using relevance, diversity and quality. We observe that Flan-T5 is the best model in the vanilla framework across different models. Type-specific prompts enhance the relevance of the responses, although they might reduce the language quality. DialoGPT proves to be the best at following the instructions and generating the type-specific counterspeech accurately."}
{"Title": "Solving the Challenge Set without Solving the Task: On Winograd Schemas as a Test of Pronominal Coreference Resolution", "Abstract": "Challenge sets such as the Winograd Schema Challenge (WSC) are used to benchmark systems{'} ability to resolve ambiguities in natural language. If one assumes as in existing work that solving a given challenge set is at least as difficult as solving some more general task, then high performance on the challenge set should indicate high performance on the general task overall. However, we show empirically that this assumption of difficulty does not always hold. In particular, we demonstrate that despite the strong performance of prompted language models (LMs) on the WSC and its variants, these same modeling techniques perform relatively poorly at resolving certain pronominal ambiguities attested in OntoNotes and related datasets that are perceived to be easier. Motivated by these findings, we propose a method for ensembling a prompted LM with a supervised, task-specific system that is overall more accurate at resolving pronominal coreference across datasets. Finally, we emphasize that datasets involving the same linguistic phenomenon draw on distinct, but overlapping, capabilities, and evaluating on any one dataset alone does not provide a complete picture of a system{'}s overall capability."}
{"Title": "Advancing Arabic Sentiment Analysis: ArSen Benchmark and the Improved Fuzzy Deep Hybrid Network", "Abstract": "Sentiment analysis is pivotal in Natural Language Processing for understanding opinions and emotions in text. While advancements in Sentiment analysis for English are notable, Arabic Sentiment Analysis (ASA) lags, despite the growing Arabic online user base. Existing ASA benchmarks are often outdated and lack comprehensive evaluation capabilities for state-of-the-art models. To bridge this gap, we introduce ArSen, a meticulously annotated COVID-19-themed Arabic dataset, and the IFDHN, a novel model incorporating fuzzy logic for enhanced sentiment classification. ArSen provides a contemporary, robust benchmark, and IFDHN achieves state-of-the-art performance on ASA tasks. Comprehensive evaluations demonstrate the efficacy of IFDHN using the ArSen dataset, highlighting future research directions in ASA."}
{"Title": "Leveraging a Cognitive Model to Measure Subjective Similarity of Human and GPT-4 Written Content", "Abstract": "Cosine similarity between two documents can be computed using token embeddings formed by Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT-4, and used to categorize those documents across a range of uses. However, these similarities are ultimately dependent on the corpora used to train these LLMs, and may not reflect subjective similarity of individuals or how their biases and constraints impact similarity metrics. This lack of cognitively-aware personalization of similarity metrics can be particularly problematic in educational and recommendation settings where there is a limited number of individual judgements of category or preference, and biases can be particularly relevant. To address this, we rely on an integration of an Instance-Based Learning (IBL) cognitive model with LLM embeddings to develop the Instance-Based Individualized Similarity (IBIS) metric. This similarity metric is beneficial in that it takes into account individual biases and constraints in a manner that is grounded in the cognitive mechanisms of decision making. To evaluate the IBIS metric, we also introduce a dataset of human categorizations of emails as being either dangerous (phishing) or safe (ham). This dataset is used to demonstrate the benefits of leveraging a cognitive model to measure the subjective similarity of human participants in an educational setting."}
{"Title": "Major Entity Identification: A Generalizable Alternative to Coreference Resolution", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Enriching Conceptual Knowledge in Language Models through Metaphorical Reference Explanation", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Polish Coreference Corpus as an LLM Testbed: Evaluating Coreference Resolution within Instruction-Following Language Models by Instruction\u2013Answer Alignment", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "MSCAW-coref: Multilingual, Singleton and Conjunction-Aware Word-Level Coreference Resolution", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Unifying the Scope of Bridging Anaphora Types in English: Bridging Annotations in ARRAU and GUM", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "WinoPron: Revisiting English Winogender Schemas for Consistency, Coverage, and Grammatical Case", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "DeepHCoref: A Deep Neural Coreference Resolution for Hindi Text", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Findings of the Third Shared Task on Multilingual Coreference Resolution", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "CorPipe at CRAC 2024: Predicting Zero Mentions from Raw Text", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "End-to-end Multilingual Coreference Resolution with Headword Mention Representation", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Multilingual coreference resolution as text generation", "Abstract": "No abstract found"}
{"Title": "Navigate Complex Physical Worlds via Geometrically Constrained LLM", "Abstract": "This study investigates the potential of Large Language Models (LLMs) for reconstructing and understanding the physical world based solely on textual knowledge. It explores the impact of model performance on spatial understanding abilities by introducing a set of geometric conventions and developing a workflow based on multi-layer graphs and multi-agent systems. The study examines how LLMs achieve multi-step and multi-objective geometric inference in a spatial environment, using unified geometric conventions and a graph-driven framework. A genetic algorithm, inspired by large-scale model knowledge, is employed to solve geometric constraint problems, enhancing the spatial reasoning capabilities of LLMs. This work innovatively explores the feasibility of using text-based LLMs as builders of the physical world and designs a workflow to enhance their spatial comprehension and construction capabilities."}
{"Title": "Empowering AAC Users: A Systematic Integration of Personal Narratives with Conversational AI", "Abstract": "Communication barriers have long posed challenges for users of Alternate and Augmentative Communication (AAC). In AAC, effective conversational aids are not solely about harnessing Artificial Intelligence (AI) capabilities but more about ensuring these technologies resonate deeply with AAC user{'}s unique communication challenges. We aim to bridge the gap between generic outputs and genuine human interactions by integrating advanced Conversational AI with personal narratives. While existing solutions offer generic responses, a considerable gap in tailoring outputs reflecting an AAC user{'}s intent must be addressed. Thus, we propose to create a custom conversational dataset centered on the experiences and words of a primary AAC user to fine-tune advanced language models. Additionally, we employ a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) method, drawing context from a summarized version of authored content by the AAC user. This combination ensures that responses are contextually relevant and deeply personal. Preliminary evaluations underscore its transformative potential, with automated metrics and human assessments showcasing significantly enhanced response quality."}
{"Title": "LLM-Based Robust Product Classification in Commerce and Compliance", "Abstract": "Product classification is a crucial task in international trade, as compliance regulations are verified and taxes and duties are applied based on product categories. Manual classification of products is time-consuming and error-prone, and the sheer volume of products imported and exported renders the manual process infeasible. Consequently, e-commerce platforms and enterprises involved in international trade have turned to automatic product classification using machine learning. However, current approaches do not consider the real-world challenges associated with product classification, such as very abbreviated and incomplete product descriptions. In addition, recent advancements in generative Large Language Models (LLMs) and their reasoning capabilities are mainly untapped in product classification and e-commerce. In this research, we explore the real-life challenges of industrial classification and we propose data perturbations that allow for realistic data simulation. Furthermore, we employ LLM-based product classification to improve the robustness of the prediction in presence of incomplete data. Our research shows that LLMs with in-context learning outperform the supervised approaches in the clean-data scenario. Additionally, we illustrate that LLMs are significantly more robust than the supervised approaches when data attacks are present."}
{"Title": "Less is Fed More: Sparsity Reduces Feature Distortion in Federated Learning", "Abstract": "Our work studies Multilingual Federated Learning (FL), a decentralized paradigm that, although promising, grapples with issues such as client drift and suboptimal generalization in diverse, multilingual settings. We highlight limitations in existing approaches to generalize across both actively participating and inactive client language pairs. To mitigate these challenges, we introduce FedSparseNet, which incorporates sparse-network training, and LoRA, based on Low-Rank Adaptation. These approaches maintain the model{'}s fidelity to its pretraining distribution, thereby ensuring robust performance on both seen and unseen language pairs, while simultaneously enhancing communication efficiency by selectively transmitting trainable parameters. Our empirical evaluations demonstrate that FedSparseNet outperforms conventional FL models on both seen and unseen clients, while LoRA shows remarkable improvements in unseen client performance. Additionally, we propose the Continuous Relative Robustness Metric, a novel metric to uniformly assess a model{'}s performance across diverse language pairs. We open-source our code for reproducibility on GitHub."}
{"Title": "Understanding Players as if They Are Talking to the Game in a Customized Language: A Pilot Study", "Abstract": "This pilot study explores the application of language models (LMs) to model game event sequences, treating them as a customized natural language. We investigate a popular mobile game, transforming raw event data into textual sequences and pretraining a Longformer model on this data. Our approach captures the rich and nuanced interactions within game sessions, effectively identifying meaningful player segments. The results demonstrate the potential of self-supervised LMs in enhancing game design and personalization without relying on ground-truth labels."}
{"Title": "L3Masking: Multi-task Fine-tuning for Language Models by Leveraging Lessons Learned from Vanilla Models", "Abstract": "When distributional differences exist between pre-training and fine-tuning data, language models (LMs) may perform poorly on downstream tasks.Recent studies have reported that multi-task learning of downstream task and masked language modeling (MLM) task during the fine-tuning phase improves the performance of the downstream task.Typical MLM tasks (e.g., random token masking (RTM)) tend not to care tokens corresponding to the knowledge already acquired during the pre-training phase, therefore LMs may not notice the important clue or not effective to acquire linguistic knowledge of the task or domain.To overcome this limitation, we propose a new masking strategy for MLM task, called L3Masking, that leverages lessons (specifically, token-wise likelihood in a context) learned from the vanilla language model to be fine-tuned.L3Masking actively masks tokens with low likelihood on the vanilla model.Experimental evaluations on text classification tasks in different domains confirms a multi-task text classification method with L3Masking performed task adaptation more effectively than that with RTM.These results suggest the usefulness of assigning a preference to the tokens to be learned as the task or domain adaptation."}
{"Title": "Grounded Language Agent for Product Search via Intelligent Web Interactions", "Abstract": "Recent research has focused on developing agents powered by large language models (LLMs) to accomplish complex high-level user intents. However, employing LLMs with billions of parameters (e.g., GPT-4) may incur substantial costs on top of handcrafting extensive prompts. To address this, we introduce a Grounded Language Agent for Intelligent Web Interactions, named GLAINTEL. GLAINTEL employs Flan-T5 as its backbone and is flexible in training in various settings: unsupervised learning, supervised learning, and unsupervised domain adaptation. Specifically, we tackle both the challenge of learning without human demonstrations and the opportunity to leverage human demonstrations effectively when those are available. Additionally, we explore unsupervised domain adaptation for cases where demonstrations are limited to a specific domain. Experimental evaluations across diverse setups demonstrate the effectiveness of GLAINTEL in unsupervised settings, outperforming in-context learning-based approaches that employ larger models with up to 540 billion parameters. Surprisingly, behavioral cloning-based methods that straightforwardly use human demonstrations do not outperform unsupervised variants of GLAINTEL. Additionally, we show that combining human demonstrations with reinforcement learning-based training yields results comparable to methods utilizing GPT-4. The code is available at: https://github.com/MultifacetedNLP/Web-Agents-Unsupervised"}
{"Title": "AdaptEval: Evaluating Large Language Models on Domain Adaptation for Text Summarization", "Abstract": "Despite the advances in the abstractive summarization task using Large Language Models (LLM), there is a lack of research that asses their abilities to easily adapt to different domains. We evaluate the domain adaptation abilities of a wide range of LLMs on the summarization task across various domains in both fine-tuning and in-context learning settings. We also present AdaptEval, the first domain adaptation evaluation suite. AdaptEval includes a domain benchmark and a set of metrics to facilitate the analysis of domain adaptation. Our results demonstrate that LLMs exhibit comparable performance in the in-context learning setting, regardless of their parameter scale."}
{"Title": "CPS-TaskForge: Generating Collaborative Problem Solving Environments for Diverse Communication Tasks", "Abstract": "Teams can outperform individuals; could adding AI teammates further bolster performance of teams solving problems collaboratively? Collaborative problem solving (CPS) research commonly studies teams with two agents (human-human or human-AI), but team research literature finds that, for complex tasks, larger teams are more effective. Progress in studying collaboration with more than two agents, through textual records of team interactions, is hindered by a major data challenge: available CPS corpora are predominantly dyadic, and adapting pre-existing CPS tasks to more agents is non-trivial. We address this data challenge by developing a CPS task generator, CPS-TaskForge, that can produce environments for studying CPS under a wide array of conditions, and releasing a CPS task design checklist grounded in the theoretical PISA 2015 CPS framework to help facilitate the development of CPS corpora with more agents. CPS-TaskForge takes the form of a resource management (tower defense) game, and different CPS tasks can be studied by manipulating game design parameters. We conduct a case study with groups of 3{--}4 humans to validate production of diverse natural language CPS communication in a game instance produced by CPS-TaskForge. We discuss opportunities for advancing research in CPS (both with human-only and human-AI teams) using different task configurations. We release all data and code."}
{"Title": "Active Learning for Robust and Representative LLM Generation in Safety-Critical Scenarios", "Abstract": "Ensuring robust safety measures across a wide range of scenarios is crucial for user-facing systems. While Large Language Models (LLMs) can generate valuable data for safety measures, they often exhibit distributional biases, focusing on common scenarios and neglecting rare but critical cases. This can undermine the effectiveness of safety protocols developed using such data. To address this, we propose a novel framework that integrates active learning with clustering to guide LLM generation, enhancing their representativeness and robustness in safety scenarios. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach by constructing a dataset of 5.4K potential safety violations through an iterative process involving LLM generation and an active learner model{'}s feedback. Our results show that the proposed framework produces a more representative set of safety scenarios without requiring prior knowledge of the underlying data distribution. Additionally, data acquired through our method improves the accuracy and F1 score of both the active learner model as well models outside the scope of active learning process, highlighting its broad applicability."}
{"Title": "Exploring the Readiness of Prominent Small Language Models for the Democratization of Financial Literacy", "Abstract": "The use of \\textit{small language models} (SLMs), herein defined as models with less than three billion parameters, is increasing across various domains and applications. Due to their ability to run on more accessible hardware and preserve user privacy, SLMs possess the potential to democratize access to language models for individuals of different socioeconomic status and with different privacy preferences. This study assesses several state-of-the-art SLMs (e.g., Apple{'}s OpenELM, Microsoft{'}s Phi, Google{'}s Gemma, and the Tinyllama project) for use in the financial domain to support the development of financial literacy LMs. Democratizing access to quality financial information for those who are financially under educated is greatly needed in society, particularly as new financial markets and products emerge and participation in financial markets increases due to ease of access. We are the first to examine the use of open-source SLMs to democratize access to financial question answering capabilities for individuals and students. To this end, we provide an analysis of the memory usage, inference time, similarity comparisons to ground-truth answers, and output readability of prominent SLMs to determine which models are most accessible and capable of supporting access to financial information. We analyze zero-shot and few-shot learning variants of the models. The results suggest that some off-the-shelf SLMs merit further exploration and fine-tuning to prepare them for individual use, while others may have limits to their democratization. Code to replicate our experiments is shared."}
{"Title": "Customized Style Transfer using Discrete Sampling", "Abstract": "Customizing text style or content typically involves extensive fine-tuning of large models, demanding significant data and training. Traditional unsupervised approaches using sampling often yield low diversity and creativity. We present a novel discrete Langevin proposal that samples directly from the categorical token distribution, overcoming these limitations. By adapting the continuous Langevin algorithm for discrete spaces, our approach enables efficient gradient-based sampling. Evaluations on style transfer tasks demonstrate superior performance over state-of-the-art methods in accuracy, BLEU, BERTScore, and diversity. Our proposed approach paves way for advanced customized text generation with desired styles as well as allows future scope for prompt generation for model safeguarding and jail-breaking."}
{"Title": "Trustful LLMs: Customizing and Grounding Text Generation with knowledge bases and Dual Decoders", "Abstract": "Although people are impressed by the content generation skills of large language models, the use of LLMs, such as ChatGPT, is limited by the domain grounding of the content. The correctness and groundedness of the generated content need to be based on a verified context, such as results from Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG). One important issue when adapting LLMs to a customized domain is that the generated responses are often incomplete, or the additions are not verified and may even be hallucinated. Prior studies on hallucination detection have focused on evaluation metrics, which are not easily adaptable to dynamic domains and can be vulnerable to attacks like jail-breaking. In this work, we propose 1) a post-processing algorithm of leveraging knowledge triplets in RAG context to correct hallucinations and 2) a dual-decoder model that fuses RAG context to guide the generation process."}
{"Title": "Constructing Domain-Specific Evaluation Sets for LLM-as-a-judge", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized the landscape of machine learning, yet current benchmarks often fall short in capturing the diverse behavior of these models in real-world applications. A benchmark{'}s usefulness is determined by its ability to clearly differentiate between models of varying capabilities (separability) and closely align with human preferences. Existing frameworks like Alpaca-Eval 2.0 LC (CITATION) and Arena-Hard v0.1 (CITATION) are limited by their focus on general-purpose queries and lack of diversity across domains such as law, medicine, and multilingual contexts. In this paper, we address these limitations by introducing a novel data pipeline that curates diverse, domain-specific evaluation sets tailored for LLM-as-a-Judge frameworks. Our approach leverages a combination of manual curation, semi-supervised learning to generate clusters, and stratified sampling to ensure balanced representation across a wide range of domains and languages. The resulting evaluation set, which includes 1573 samples across 14 categories, demonstrates high separability (84{\\%}) across ten top-ranked models, and agreement (84{\\%}) with Chatbot Arena and (0.915) Spearman correlation. The agreement values are 9{\\%} better than Arena Hard and 20{\\%} better than AlpacaEval 2.0 LC, while the Spearman coefficient is 0.7 more than the next best benchmark, showcasing a significant improvement in the usefulness of the benchmark. We further provide an open-source evaluation tool that enables fine-grained analysis of model performance across user-defined categories, offering valuable insights for practitioners. This work contributes to the ongoing effort to enhance the transparency, diversity, and effectiveness of LLM evaluation methodologies."}
{"Title": "Learning to Adapt Large Language Models to One-Shot In-Context Intent Classification on Unseen Domains", "Abstract": "In this paper, we explore one-shot in-context intent classification using large language models (LLMs) with the goal of minimizing the effort required to adapt models to unseen domains. To enhance the one-shot in-context learning capabilities of LLMs, we employ in-context tuning, leveraging its cross-domain transferability to unseen domains.To this end, we introduce the IC-collection, a compilation of open-source intent classification datasets from diverse domains, which are meticulously divided into held-in and held-out datasets.Our experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method, showing that our model, with only 7B parameters, not only outperforms GPT-4 on intent classification but also achieves state-of-the-art in unseen domains with only one-shot demonstrations.Both our benchmark and model will be made publicly available to advance research in the chatbot systems."}
{"Title": "Pearl: Personalizing Large Language Model Writing Assistants with Generation-Calibrated Retrievers", "Abstract": "Powerful large language models have facilitated the development of writing assistants that promise to significantly improve the quality and efficiency of composition and communication. However, a barrier to effective assistance is the lack of personalization in LLM outputs to the author{'}s communication style, specialized knowledge, and values. In this paper, we address this challenge by proposing Pearl, a LLM writing assistant personalized with a retriever that is trained to be generation-calibrated for personalization. Generation calibration ensures that our retriever selects historic user authored documents to augment an LLM prompt such that they are likely to help an LLM generation better adhere to a users{'} preferences. We propose two key novelties for training such a retriever: (1) A training data selection method that identifies user requests likely to benefit from personalization and documents that provide that benefit; and (2) A scale-calibrating KL-divergence objective that ensures that our retriever scores remain proportional to the downstream generation quality from using the document for personalized generation. In a series of holistic evaluations, we demonstrate the effectiveness of Pearl in generating long-form texts on multiple social media datasets. Finally, we demonstrate how a generation-calibrated retriever can double as a performance predictor {--} detecting low quality retrieval, and improving potentially under-performing outputs via revision with LLMs."}
{"Title": "Evaluating and Training Long-Context Large Language Models for Question Answering on Scientific Papers", "Abstract": "With the number of scientific papers published every year growing and current large language models (LLMs) showing state-of-the-art performance on natural language processing (NLP) tasks, we ask the question if LLMs could be utilized to answer questions on scientific papers.We investigate how well state-of-the-art large language models (LLMs) can answer questions on scientific paper by experimenting with long-context versions of the LLaMA 2 model and evaluating and training on the Qasper dataset.We analyze how well the LLMs handle longer papers and questions that can only be answered by accessing information from far out paragraphs. During our experiments, we see that the performance of these LLMs drops with growing length and position of relevant information.We employ different measures from simple prompts to chain-of-thought prompts and zero-shot usage to fine-tuning with QLoRA.While we still observe a performance loss with increased context length, our measures reduce the effects of this flaw, and we can achieve $F_{1}$ scores similar to bigger models like GPT-4."}
{"Title": "HyPA-RAG: A Hybrid Parameter Adaptive Retrieval-Augmented Generation System for AI Legal and Policy Applications", "Abstract": "While Large Language Models (LLMs) excel in text generation and question-answering, their effectiveness in AI legal and policy applications is limited by outdated knowledge, hallucinations, and inadequate reasoning in complex contexts. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) systems improve response accuracy by integrating external knowledge but struggle with retrieval errors, poor context integration, and high costs, particularly in interpreting AI legal texts. This paper introduces a Hybrid Parameter-Adaptive RAG (HyPA-RAG) system tailored for AI legal and policy, exemplified by NYC Local Law 144 (LL144). HyPA-RAG uses a query complexity classifier for adaptive parameter tuning, a hybrid retrieval strategy combining dense, sparse, and knowledge graph methods, and an evaluation framework with specific question types and metrics. By dynamically adjusting parameters, HyPA-RAG significantly improves retrieval accuracy and response fidelity. Testing on LL144 shows enhanced correctness, faithfulness, and contextual precision, addressing the need for adaptable NLP systems in complex, high-stakes AI legal and policy applications."}
{"Title": "What Kind of Sourcery is This? Evaluating GPT-4's Performance on Linking Scientific Fact to Citations", "Abstract": "From document summarization to code generation, chabots have disrupted various aspects of scientific research and writing. While chabots are useful research resources for ideation, information retrieval, and editing, their generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) models{'} underlying knowledge infrastructure is opaque. This has raised questions about the reliability of generative chatbot responses, as GPT models are known to respond with misleading information that appears to be accurate. Prior research has investigated the utility of OpenAI{'}s public chatbot, ChatGPT, to generate reliable bibliographic information with a focus on small-scale medical-related scientific facts. We present an expanded study that analyzes GPT-4{'}s ability to accurately identify 1,326 scientific facts and link them to academic sources. Using both the API and UI service, we experimented with open-ended and close-ended prompts to establish an understanding of GPT-4{'}s general ability at this domain-specific task, as well as study the real-world scenario of an average user interacting with ChatGPT using its UI. GPT-4 accurately identified 96{\\%} of the scientific facts and generated relevant and existent academic citations with 78{\\%} accuracy. Using the claims that GPT-4 mislabeled and provided incorrect sources via the API, we prompt two public GPTs customized for academic writing to evaluate if they correctly label the scientific claims and provide accurate sources. We find that these GPTs are able to accurately label 38{\\%} of the mislabeled claims, with 95{\\%} of the corresponding citations being accurate and relevant."}
{"Title": "\u201cLet's Argue Both Sides\u201d: Argument Generation Can Force Small Models to Utilize Previously Inaccessible Reasoning Capabilities", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs), despite achieving state-of-the-art results in a number of evaluation tasks, struggle to maintain their performance when logical reasoning is strictly required to correctly infer a prediction. In this work, we propose Argument Generation as a method of forcing models to utilize their reasoning capabilities when other approaches such as chain-of-thought reasoning prove insufficient. Our method involves the generation of arguments for each possible inference result, and asking the end model to rank the generated arguments. We show that Argument Generation can serve as an appropriate substitute for zero-shot prompting techniques without the requirement to add layers of complexity. Furthermore, we argue that knowledge-probing techniques such as chain-of-thought reasoning and Argument Generation are only useful when further reasoning is required to infer a prediction, making them auxiliary to more common zero-shot approaches. Finally, we demonstrate that our approach forces larger gains in smaller language models, showcasing a complex relationship between model size and prompting methods in foundation models."}
{"Title": "LLM-as-a-tutor in EFL Writing Education: Focusing on Evaluation of Student-LLM Interaction", "Abstract": "In the context of English as a Foreign Language (EFL) writing education, LLM-as-a-tutor can assist students by providing real-time feedback on their essays. However, challenges arise in assessing LLM-as-a-tutor due to differing standards between educational and general use cases. To bridge this gap, we integrate pedagogical principles to assess student-LLM interaction. First, we explore how LLMs can function as English tutors, providing effective essay feedback tailored to students. Second, we propose three criteria to evaluate LLM-as-a-tutor specifically designed for EFL writing education, emphasizing pedagogical aspects. In this process, EFL experts evaluate the feedback from LLM-as-a-tutor regarding (1) quality and (2) characteristics. On the other hand, EFL learners assess their (3) learning outcomes from interaction with LLM-as-a-tutor. This approach lays the groundwork for developing LLMs-as-a-tutor tailored to the needs of EFL learners, advancing the effectiveness of writing education in this context."}
{"Title": "E-Commerce Product Categorization with LLM-based Dual-Expert Classification Paradigm", "Abstract": "Accurate product categorization in e-commerce is critical for delivering a satisfactory online shopping experience to customers. With the vast number of available products and the numerous potential categories, it becomes crucial to develop a classification system capable of assigning products to their correct categories with high accuracy. We present a dual-expert classification system that utilizes the power of large language models (LLMs). This framework integrates domain-specific knowledge and pre-trained LLM{'}s general knowledge through effective model fine-tuning and prompting techniques. First, the fine-tuned domain-specific expert recommends top K candidate categories for a given input product. Then, the more general LLM-based expert, through prompting techniques, analyzes the nuanced differences between candidate categories and selects the most suitable target category. We introduce a new in-context learning approach that utilizes LLM self-generated summarization to provide clearer instructions and enhance its performance. Experiments on e-commerce datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our LLM-based Dual-Expert classification system."}
{"Title": "Adapting LLM Predictions in In-Context Learning with Data Priors", "Abstract": "In-Context Learning (ICL) has enabled Large Language Models (LLMs) to excel as general-purpose models in zero and few-shot task settings. However, since LLMs are often not trained on the downstream tasks, they lack crucial contextual knowledge from the data distributions, which limits their task adaptability.This paper explores using data priors to automatically customize prompts in ICL. We extract these priors in a dataset-agnostic way basedon historical information, enabling LLMs to personalize their output towards users or tasks at inference time. We find that they improve LLM{'}s output by injecting latent dataset-specific information for the task of rating prediction. Throughout a series of experiments, we show replicable results across LLMs and datasets on what information and methods are most effective for adapting ICL outputs with priors. Our findings offer a systematic approach to customizing prompts with additional information in a privacy-friendly manner, requiring only aggregated data that is computationally efficient."}
{"Title": "V-Gl\u00f3rIA - Customizing Large Vision and Language Models to European Portuguese", "Abstract": "Generative Vision and Language models have obtained remarkable results recently, thanks to the use of robust pre-trained Visual encoders and Large Language Models (LLMs), together with efficient model adaptation training strategies, requiring minimal architecturalmodifications, while preserving LLMs{'} original capabilities. With these advances focusing mainly on the English language, there is a gap in customization methodologies for other languages. In this paper, we propose a customization methodology that adapts existingstate-of-the-art vision and language architectures to European Portuguese (PT-PT). As a result of applying this methodology, we introduce V-Gl{\\'o}rIA , the first Large Vision and Language generative model specifically customized for European Portuguese. V-Gl{\\'o}rIA supports multimodal tasks such as image captioning, retrieval, and dialogue. To deliver V-Gl{\\'o}rIA, we leverage state-of-the-art V{\\&}L architectures, and contribute with PT-PT machine-translated pre-training (CC3M PT-PT) and benchmark (MSCOCO PT-PT and VisDial PT-PT) datasets.Our experiments show that V-Gl{\\'o}rIA delivers promising performance in text-image retrieval and downstream tasks in a zero-shot setting, such as image captioning and visual dialogue tasks, highlighting the effectiveness of our customization approach."}
{"Title": "The Automated Verification of Textual Claims (AVeriTeC) Shared Task", "Abstract": "The Automated Verification of Textual Claims (AVeriTeC) shared task asks participants to retrieve evidence and predict veracity for real-world claims checked by fact-checkers. Evidence can be found either via a search engine, or via a knowledge store provided by the organisers. Submissions are evaluated using the AVeriTeC score, which considers a claim to be accurately verified if and only if both the verdict is correct and retrieved evidence is considered to meet a certain quality threshold. The shared task received 21 submissions, 18 of which surpassed our baseline. The winning team was TUDA{\\_}MAI with an AVeriTeC score of 63{\\%}. In this paper we describe the shared task, present the full results, and highlight key takeaways from the shared task."}
{"Title": "Multi-hop Evidence Pursuit Meets the Web: Team Papelo at FEVER 2024", "Abstract": "Separating disinformation from fact on the web has long challenged both the search and the reasoning powers of humans. We show that the reasoning power of large language models (LLMs) and the retrieval power of modern search engines can be combined to automate this process and explainably verify claims. We integrate LLMs and search under a multi-hop evidence pursuit strategy. This strategy generates an initial question based on an input claim using a sequence to sequence model, searches and formulates an answer to the question, and iteratively generates follow-up questions to pursue the evidence that is missing using an LLM. We demonstrate our system on the FEVER 2024 (AVeriTeC) shared task. Compared to a strategy of generating all the questions at once, our method obtains .045 higher label accuracy and .155 higher AVeriTeC score (evaluating the adequacy of the evidence). Through ablations, we show the importance of various design choices, such as the question generation method, medium-sized context, reasoning with one document at a time, adding metadata, paraphrasing, reducing the problem to two classes, and reconsidering the final verdict. Our submitted system achieves .510 AVeriTeC score on the dev set and .477 AVeriTec score on the test set."}
{"Title": "Retrieving Semantics for Fact-Checking: A Comparative Approach using CQ (Claim to Question) & AQ (Answer to Question)", "Abstract": "Fact-checking using evidences is the preferred way to tackle the issue of misinformation in the society. The democratization of information through social media has accelerated the spread of information, allowing misinformation to reach and influence a vast audience. The significant impact of these falsehoods on society and public opinion underscores the need for automated approaches to identify and combat this phenomenon.This paper is describes the participation of team IKR3-UNIMIB in AVeriTeC (Automated Verification of Textual Claims) 2024 shared task. We proposed a methods to retrieve evidence in the question and answer format and predict the veracity of a claim. As part of the AVeriTeC shared task, our method combines similarity-based ColBERT re-ranker with traditional keyword search using BM25. Additionally, a recent promising approach, Chain of RAG (CoRAG) is introduced to generate question and answer pairs (QAs) to evaluate performance on this specific dataset. We explore whether generating questions from claims or answers produces more effective QA pairs for veracity prediction. Additionally, we try to generate questions from the claim rather than from evidence (opposite the AVeriTeC dataset paper) to generate effective QA pairs for veracity prediction. Our method achieved an AVeriTeC Score of 0.18 (more than baseline) on the test dataset, demonstrating its potential in automated fact-checking."}
{"Title": "RAG-Fusion Based Information Retrieval for Fact-Checking", "Abstract": "Fact-checking involves searching for relevant evidence and determining whether the given claim contains any misinformation. In this paper, we propose a fact verification system based on RAG-Fusion. We use GPT-4o to generate questions from the claim, which helps improve the accuracy of evidence retrieval.Additionally, we adopt GPT-4o for the final judgment module and refine the prompts to enhance the detection accuracy, particularly when the claim contains misinformation. Experiment showed that our system achieved an AVeriTeC Score of 0.3865 on the AVeriTeC test data, significantly surpassing the baseline score of 0.11."}
{"Title": "UHH at AVeriTeC: RAG for Fact-Checking with Real-World Claims", "Abstract": "This paper presents UHH{'}s approach developed for the AVeriTeC shared task. The goal of the challenge is to verify given real-world claims with evidences from the Web. In this shared task, we investigate a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) model, which mainly contains retrieval, generation, and augmentation components. We start with the selection of the top 10k evidences via BM25 scores, and continue with two approaches to retrieve the most similar evidences: (1) to retrieve top 10 evidences through vector similarity, generate questions for them, and rerank them or (2) to generate questions for the claim and retrieve the most similar evidence, again, through vector similarity. After retrieving the top evidences, a Large Language Model (LLM) is prompted using the claim along with either all evidences or individual evidence to predict the label. Our system submission, $\\textbf{UHH}$, using the first approach and individual evidence prompts, ranks 6th out of 23 systems."}
{"Title": "Improving Evidence Retrieval on Claim Verification Pipeline through Question Enrichment", "Abstract": "The AVeriTeC shared task introduces a new real-word claim verification dataset, where a system is tasked to verify a real-world claim based on the evidence found in the internet.In this paper, we proposed a claim verification pipeline called QueenVer which consists of 2 modules, Evidence Retrieval and Claim Verification.Our pipeline collects pairs of {\\textless}Question, Answer{\\textgreater} as the evidence. Recognizing the pivotal role of question quality in the evidence efficacy, we proposed question enrichment to enhance the retrieved evidence. Specifically, we adopt three different Question Generation (QG) technique, muti-hop, single-hop, and Fact-checker style. For the claim verification module, we integrate an ensemble of multiple state-of-the-art LLM to enhance its robustness.Experiments show that QueenVC achieves 0.41, 0.29, and 0.42 on Q, Q+A, and AVeriTeC scores."}
{"Title": "Dunamu-ml's Submissions on AVERITEC Shared Task", "Abstract": "This paper presents the Dunamu-ml{'}s submission to the AVERITEC shared task of the 7th the Fact Extraction and VERification (FEVER) workshop. The task focused on discriminating whether each claim is a fact or not. Our method is powered by the combination of an LLM and a non-parametric lexicon-based method (i.e. BM25). Essentially, we augmented the list of evidences containing the query and the corresponding answers using an powerful LLM, then, retrieved the relative documents using the generated evidences. As such, our method made a great improvement over the baseline results, achieving 0.33 performance gain over the baseline in AveriTec score."}
{"Title": "FZI-WIM at AVeriTeC Shared Task: Real-World Fact-Checking with Question Answering", "Abstract": "This paper describes the FZI-WIM system at the AVeriTeC shared Task, which aims to assess evidence-based automated fact-checking systems for real-world claims with evidence retrieved from the web. The FZI-WIM system utilizes open-source models to build a reliable fact-checking pipeline via question-answering. With different experimental setups, we show that more questions lead to higher scores in the shared task. Both in question generation and question-answering stages, sampling can be a way to improve the performance of our system. We further analyze the limitations of current open-source models for real-world claim verification. Our code is publicly available https://github.com/jens5588/FZI-WIM-AVERITEC."}
{"Title": "Zero-Shot Learning and Key Points Are All You Need for Automated Fact-Checking", "Abstract": "Automated fact-checking is an important task because determining the accurate status of a proposed claim within the vast amount of information available online is a critical challenge. This challenge requires robust evaluation to prevent the spread of false information. Modern large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated high capability in performing a diverse range of Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks. By utilizing proper prompting strategies, their versatility{---}due to their understanding of large context sizes and zero-shot learning ability{---}enables them to simulate human problem-solving intuition and move towards being an alternative to humans for solving problems. In this work, we introduce a straightforward framework based on {\\_}**Z**ero-**S**hot **L**earning{\\_} and {\\_}**Ke**y **P**oints{\\_} (ZSL-KeP) for automated fact-checking, which despite its simplicity, performed well on the AVeriTeC shared task dataset by robustly improving the baseline and achieving 10th place."}
{"Title": "Evidence-backed Fact Checking using RAG and Few-Shot In-Context Learning with LLMs", "Abstract": "Given the widespread dissemination of misinformation on social media, implementing fact-checking mechanisms for online claims is essential. Manually verifying every claim is very challenging, underscoring the need for an automated fact-checking system. This paper presents our system designed to address this issue. We utilize the Averitec dataset (Schlichtkrull et al., 2023) to assess the performance of our fact-checking system. In addition to veracity prediction, our system provides supporting evidence, which is extracted from the dataset. We develop a Retrieve and Generate (RAG) pipeline to extract relevant evidence sentences from a knowledge base, which are then inputted along with the claim into a large language model (LLM) for classification. We also evaluate the few-shot In-Context Learning (ICL) capabilities of multiple LLMs. Our system achieves an {`}Averitec{'} score of 0.33, which is a 22{\\%} absolute improvement over the baseline. Our Code is publicly available on https://github.com/ronit-singhal/evidence-backed-fact-checking-using-rag-and-few-shot-in-context-learning-with-llms."}
{"Title": "SK_DU Team: Cross-Encoder based Evidence Retrieval and Question Generation with Improved Prompt for the AVeriTeC Shared Task", "Abstract": "As part of the AVeriTeC shared task, we developed a pipelined system comprising robust and finely tuned models. Our system integrates advanced techniques for evidence retrieval and question generation, leveraging cross-encoders and large language models (LLMs) for optimal performance. With multi-stage processing, the pipeline demonstrates improvements over baseline models, particularly in handling complex claims that require nuanced reasoning by improved evidence extraction, question generation and veracity prediction. Through detailed experiments and ablation studies, we provide insights into the strengths and weaknesses of our approach, highlighting the critical role of evidence sufficiency and context dependency in automated fact-checking systems. Our system secured a competitive rank, 7th on the development and 12th on the test data, in the shared task, underscoring the effectiveness of our methods in addressing the challenges of real-world claim verification."}
{"Title": "InFact: A Strong Baseline for Automated Fact-Checking", "Abstract": "The spread of disinformation poses a global threat to democratic societies, necessitating robust and scalable Automated Fact-Checking (AFC) systems. The AVeriTeC Shared Task Challenge 2024 offers a realistic benchmark for text-based fact-checking methods. This paper presents Information-Retrieving Fact-Checker (InFact), an LLM-based approach that breaks down the task of claim verification into a 6-stage process, including evidence retrieval. When using GPT-4o as the backbone, InFact achieves an AVeriTeC score of 63{\\%} on the test set, outperforming all other 20 teams competing in the challenge, and establishing a new strong baseline for future text-only AFC systems. Qualitative analysis of mislabeled instances reveals that InFact often yields a more accurate conclusion than AVeriTeC{'}s human-annotated ground truth."}
{"Title": "Exploring Retrieval Augmented Generation For Real-world Claim Verification", "Abstract": "Automated Fact-Checking (AFC) has recently gained considerable attention to address the increasing misinformation spreading in the web and social media. The recently introduced AVeriTeC dataset alleviates some limitations of existing AFC benchmarks. In this paper, we propose to explore Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) and describe the system (UPS participant) we implemented to solve the AVeriTeC shared task.Our end-to-end system integrates retrieval and generation in a joint training setup to enhance evidence retrieval and question generation. Our system operates as follows: First, we conduct dense retrieval of evidence by encoding candidate evidence sentences from the provided knowledge store documents. Next, we perform a secondary retrieval of question-answer pairs from the training set, encoding these into dense vectors to support question generation with relevant in-context examples. During training, the question generator is optimized to generate questions based on retrieved or gold evidence. In preliminary automatic evaluation, our system achieved respectively 0.198 and 0.210 AVeriTeC scores on the dev and test sets."}
{"Title": "GProofT: A Multi-dimension Multi-round Fact Checking Framework Based on Claim Fact Extraction", "Abstract": "In the information era, the vast proliferation of online content poses significant challenges, particularly concerning the trustworthiness of these digital statements, which can have profound societal implications. Although it is possible to manually annotate and verify the authenticity of such content, the sheer volume and rapid pace of information generation render this approach impractical, both in terms of time and cost. Therefore, it is imperative to develop automated systems capable of validating online claims, ensuring that users can use the wealth of information available on the Internet effectively and reliably. Using primarily ChatGPT and the Google search API, GProofT fact checking framework generates question-answer pairs to systematically extract and verify the facts within claims. Based on the outcomes of these QA pairs, claims are subsequently labeled as Supported, Conflicted Evidence/Cherry-Picking, or Refuted. Shown by extensive experiments, GProofT Retrieval generally performs effectively in fact-checking and makes a substantial contribution to the task. Our code is released on https://github.com/HKUST-KnowComp/GProofT."}
{"Title": "HerO at AVeriTeC: The Herd of Open Large Language Models for Verifying Real-World Claims", "Abstract": "To tackle the AVeriTeC shared task hosted by the FEVER-24, we introduce a system that only employs publicly available large language models (LLMs) for each step of automated fact-checking, dubbed the \\textbf{Her}d of \\textbf{O}pen LLMs for verifying real-world claims (\\textbf{HerO}). HerO employs multiple LLMs for each step of automated fact-checking. For evidence retrieval, a language model is used to enhance a query by generating hypothetical documents that check the veracity of a claim. We fine-tune LLMs for question generation and veracity prediction by crafting prompts with retrieved in-context samples. HerO achieved 2nd place on the leaderboard with the AVeriTeC score of 0.57, suggesting the potential of open LLMs for verifying real-world claims. For future research, we make our code publicly available at \\url{https://github.com/ssu-humane/HerO}."}
{"Title": "AIC CTU system at AVeriTeC: Re-framing automated fact-checking as a simple RAG task", "Abstract": "This paper describes our $3^{rd}$ place submission in the AVeriTeC shared task in which we attempted to address the challenge of fact-checking with evidence retrieved in the wild using a simple scheme of Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) designed for the task, leveraging the predictive power of Large Language Models.We release our codebase and explain its two modules - the Retriever and the Evidence {\\&} Label generator - in detail, justifying their features such as MMR-reranking and Likert-scale confidence estimation.We evaluate our solution on AVeriTeC dev and test set and interpret the results, picking the GPT-4o as the most appropriate model for our pipeline at the time of our publication, with Llama 3.1 70B being a promising open-source alternative.We perform an empirical error analysis to see that faults in our predictions often coincide with noise in the data or ambiguous fact-checks, provoking further research and data augmentation."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Fact Verification with Causal Knowledge Graphs and Transformer-Based Retrieval for Deductive Reasoning", "Abstract": "The ability to extract and verify factual information from free-form text is critical in an era where vast amounts of unstructured data are available, yet unreliable sources abound. This paper focuses on enhancing causal deductive reasoning, a key component of factual verification, through the lens of accident investigation, where determining the probable causes of events is paramount. Deductive reasoning refers to the task of drawing conclusions based on a premise. While some deductive reasoning benchmarks exist, none focus on causal deductive reasoning and are from real-world applications. Recently, large language models (LLMs) used with prompt engineering techniques like retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) have demonstrated remarkable performance across various natural language processing benchmarks. However, adapting these techniques to handle scenarios with no knowledge bases and to different data structures, such as graphs, remains an ongoing challenge. In our study, we introduce a novel framework leveraging LLMs{'} decent ability to detect and infer causal relations to construct a causal Knowledge Graph (KG) which represents knowledge that the LLM recognizes. Additionally, we propose a RoBERTa-based Transformer Graph Neural Network (RoTG) specifically designed to select relevant nodes within this KG. Integrating RoTG-retrieved causal chains into prompts effectively enhances LLM performance, demonstrating usefulness of our approach in advancing LLMs{'} causal deductive reasoning capabilities."}
{"Title": "Numerical Claim Detection in Finance: A New Financial Dataset, Weak-Supervision Model, and Market Analysis", "Abstract": "In this paper, we investigate the influence of claims in analyst reports and earnings calls on financial market returns, considering them as significant quarterly events for publicly traded companies. To facilitate a comprehensive analysis, we construct a new financial dataset for the claim detection task in the financial domain. We benchmark various language models on this dataset and propose a novel weak-supervision model that incorporates the knowledge of subject matter experts (SMEs) in the aggregation function, outperforming existing approaches. We also demonstrate the practical utility of our proposed model by constructing a novel measure of *optimism*. Here, we observe the dependence of earnings surprise and return on our optimism measure. Our dataset, models, and code are publicly (under CC BY 4.0 license) available on GitHub."}
{"Title": "Streamlining Conformal Information Retrieval via Score Refinement", "Abstract": "Information retrieval (IR) methods, like retrieval augmented generation, are fundamental to modern applications but often lack statistical guarantees. Conformal prediction addresses this by retrieving sets guaranteed to include relevant information, yet existing approaches produce large-sized sets, incurring high computational costs and slow response times. In this work, we introduce a score refinement method that applies a simple monotone transformation to retrieval scores, leading to significantly smaller conformal sets while maintaining their statistical guarantees. Experiments on various BEIR benchmarks validate the effectiveness of our approach in producing compact sets containing relevant information."}
{"Title": "Improving Explainable Fact-Checking via Sentence-Level Factual Reasoning", "Abstract": "Most existing fact-checking systems are unable to explain their decisions by providing relevant rationales (justifications) for their predictions. It highlights a lack of transparency that poses significant risks, such as the prevalence of unexpected biases, which may increase political polarization due to limitations in impartiality. To address this critical gap, we introduce SEntence-Level FActual Reasoning (SELFAR), aimed at improving explainable fact-checking. SELFAR relies on fact extraction and verification by predicting the news source reliability and factuality (veracity) of news articles or claims at the sentence level, generating post-hoc explanations using SHAP/LIME and zero-shot prompts. Our experiments show that unreliable news stories predominantly consist of subjective statements, in contrast to reliable ones. Consequently, predicting unreliable news articles at the sentence level by analyzing impartiality and subjectivity is a promising approach for fact extraction and improving explainable fact-checking. Furthermore, LIME outperforms SHAP in explaining predictions on reliability. Additionally, while zero-shot prompts provide highly readable explanations and achieve an accuracy of 0.71 in predicting factuality, their tendency to hallucinate remains a challenge. Lastly, this paper also presents the first study on explainable fact-checking in the Portuguese language."}
{"Title": "Fast Evidence Extraction for Grounded Language Model Outputs", "Abstract": "Summarizing documents with Large Language Models (LLMs) warrants a rigorous inspection of the resulting outputs by humans. However, unaided verification of generated outputs is time-intensive and intractable at scale. For high-stakes applications like healthcare where verification is necessary, expediting this step can unlock massive gains in productivity. In this paper, we focus on the task of evidence extraction for abstractive summarization: for each summary line, extract the corresponding evidence spans from a source document. Viewing this evidence extraction problem through the lens of extractive question answering, we train a set of fast and scalable hierarchical architectures: EarlyFusion, MidFusion, and LateFusion. Our experiments show that (i) our method outperforms the state-of-the-art by 1.4{\\%} relative F1-Score; (ii) our model architecture reduces latency by 4x over a RoBERTa-Large baseline; and (iii) pretraining on an extractive QA corpus confers positive transfer to evidence extraction, especially in low-resource regimes."}
{"Title": "Question-Based Retrieval using Atomic Units for Enterprise RAG", "Abstract": "Enterprise retrieval augmented generation (RAG) offers a highly flexible framework for combining powerful large language models (LLMs) with internal, possibly temporally changing, documents. In RAG, documents are first chunked. Relevant chunks are then retrieved for a user query, which are passed as context to a synthesizer LLM to generate the query response. However, the retrieval step can limit performance, as incorrect chunks can lead the synthesizer LLM to generate a false response. This work applies a zero-shot adaptation of standard dense retrieval steps for more accurate chunk recall. Specifically, a chunk is first decomposed into atomic statements. A set of synthetic questions are then generated on these atoms (with the chunk as the context). Dense retrieval involves finding the closest set of synthetic questions, and associated chunks, to the user query. It is found that retrieval with the atoms leads to higher recall than retrieval with chunks. Further performance gain is observed with retrieval using the synthetic questions generated over the atoms. Higher recall at the retrieval step enables higher performance of the enterprise LLM using the RAG pipeline."}
{"Title": "AMREx: AMR for Explainable Fact Verification", "Abstract": "With the advent of social media networks and the vast amount of information circulating through them, automatic fact verification is an essential component to prevent the spread of misinformation. It is even more useful to have fact verification systems that provide explanations along with their classifications to ensure accurate predictions. To address both of these requirements, we implement AMREx, an Abstract Meaning Representation (AMR)-based veracity prediction and explanation system for fact verification using a combination of Smatch, an AMR evaluation metric to measure meaning containment and textual similarity, and demonstrate its effectiveness in producing partially explainable justifications using two community standard fact verification datasets, FEVER and AVeriTeC. AMREx surpasses the AVeriTec baseline accuracy showing the effectiveness of our approach for real-world claim verification. It follows an interpretable pipeline and returns an explainable AMR node mapping to clarify the system{'}s veracity predictions when applicable. We further demonstrate that AMREx output can be used to prompt LLMs to generate natural-language explanations using the AMR mappings as a guide to lessen the probability of hallucinations."}
{"Title": "Claim Check-Worthiness Detection: How Well do LLMs Grasp Annotation Guidelines?", "Abstract": "The rising threat of disinformation underscores the need to fully or partially automate the fact-checking process. Identifying text segments requiring fact-checking is known as claim detection (CD) and claim check-worthiness detection (CW), the latter incorporating complex domain-specific criteria of worthiness and often framed as a ranking task. Zero- and few-shot LLM prompting is an attractive option for both tasks, as it bypasses the need for labeled datasets and allows verbalized claim and worthiness criteria to be directly used for prompting. We evaluate the LLMs{'} predictive accuracy on five CD/CW datasets from diverse domains, using corresponding annotation guidelines in prompts. We examine two key aspects: (1) how to best distill factuality and worthiness criteria into a prompt, and (2) how much context to provide for each claim. To this end, we experiment with different levels of prompt verbosity and varying amounts of contextual information given to the model. We additionally evaluate the top-performing models with ranking metrics, resembling prioritization done by fact-checkers. Our results show that optimal prompt verbosity varies, meta-data alone adds more performance boost than co-text, and confidence scores can be directly used to produce reliable check-worthiness rankings."}
{"Title": "Contrastive Learning to Improve Retrieval for Real-World Fact Checking", "Abstract": "Recent work on fact-checking addresses a realistic setting where models incorporate evidence retrieved from the web to decide the veracity of claims. A bottleneck in this pipeline is in retrieving relevant evidence: traditional methods may surface documents directly related to a claim, but fact-checking complex claims requires more inferences. For instance, a document about how a vaccine was developed is relevant to addressing claims about what it might contain, even if it does not address them directly. We present Contrastive Fact-Checking Reranker (CFR), an improved retriever for this setting. By leveraging the AVeriTeC dataset, which annotates subquestions for claims with human written answers from evidence documents, we fine-tune Contriever with a contrastive objective based on multiple training signals, including distillation from GPT-4, evaluating subquestion answers, and gold labels in the dataset. We evaluate our model on both retrieval and end-to-end veracity judgments about claims. On the AVeriTeC dataset, we find a 6{\\%} improvement in veracity classification accuracy. We also show our gains can be transferred to FEVER, ClaimDecomp, HotpotQA, and a synthetic dataset requiring retrievers to make inferences."}
{"Title": "RAGAR, Your Falsehood Radar: RAG-Augmented Reasoning for Political Fact-Checking using Multimodal Large Language Models", "Abstract": "The escalating challenge of misinformation, particularly in political discourse, requires advanced fact-checking solutions; this is even clearer in the more complex scenario of multimodal claims. We tackle this issue using a multimodal large language model in conjunction with retrieval-augmented generation (RAG), and introduce two novel reasoning techniques: Chain of RAG (CoRAG) and Tree of RAG (ToRAG). They fact-check multimodal claims by extracting both textual and image content, retrieving external information, and reasoning subsequent questions to be answered based on prior evidence. We achieve a weighted F1-score of 0.85, surpassing a baseline reasoning technique by 0.14 points. Human evaluation confirms that the vast majority of our generated fact-check explanations contain all information from gold standard data."}
{"Title": "FactGenius: Combining Zero-Shot Prompting and Fuzzy Relation Mining to Improve Fact Verification with Knowledge Graphs", "Abstract": "Fact-checking is a crucial natural language processing (NLP) task that verifies the truthfulness of claims by considering reliable evidence. Traditional methods are labour- intensive, and most automatic approaches focus on using documents as evidence. In this paper, we focus on the relatively understudied fact-checking with Knowledge Graph data as evidence and experiment on the recently introduced FactKG benchmark. We present FactGenius, a novel method that enhances fact- checking by combining zero-shot prompting of large language models (LLMs) with fuzzy text matching on knowledge graphs (KGs). Our method employs LLMs for filtering relevant connections from the graph and validates these connections via distance-based matching. The evaluation of FactGenius on an existing benchmark demonstrates its effectiveness, as we show it significantly outperforms state-of- the-art methods. The code and materials are available at https://github.com/SushantGautam/FactGenius."}
{"Title": "Fact or Fiction? Improving Fact Verification with Knowledge Graphs through Simplified Subgraph Retrievals", "Abstract": "Despite recent success in natural language processing (NLP), fact verification still remains a difficult task. Due to misinformation spreading increasingly fast, attention has been directed towards automatically verifying the correctness of claims. In the domain of NLP, this is usually done by training supervised machine learning models to verify claims by utilizing evidence from trustworthy corpora. We present efficient methods for verifying claims on a dataset where the evidence is in the form of structured knowledge graphs. We use the FactKG dataset, which is constructed from the DBpedia knowledge graph extracted from Wikipedia. By simplifying the evidence retrieval process, from fine-tuned language models to simple logical retrievals, we are able to construct models that both require less computational resources and achieve better test-set accuracy."}
{"Title": "BERTrend: Neural Topic Modeling for Emerging Trends Detection", "Abstract": "enter abstract here"}
{"Title": "An Incremental Clustering Baseline for Event Detection on Twitter", "Abstract": "enter abstract here"}
{"Title": "DEGREE2: Efficient Extraction of Multiple Events Using Language Models", "Abstract": "enter abstract here"}
{"Title": "MUMOSA, Interactive Dashboard for MUlti-MOdal Situation Awareness", "Abstract": "enter abstract here"}
{"Title": "Reasoning and Tools for Human-Level Forecasting", "Abstract": "enter abstract here"}
{"Title": "A Comprehensive Survey on Document-Level Information Extraction", "Abstract": "enter abstract here"}
{"Title": "Generative Approaches to Event Extraction: Survey and Outlook", "Abstract": "enter abstract here"}
{"Title": "Evaluating the fairness of task-adaptive pretraining on unlabeled test data before few-shot text classification", "Abstract": "Few-shot learning benchmarks are critical for evaluating modern NLP techniques. It is possible, however, that benchmarks favor methods which easily make use of unlabeled text, because researchers can use unlabeled text from the test set to pretrain their models. Given the dearth of research on this potential problem, we run experiments to quantify the bias caused by pretraining on unlabeled test set text instead of on unlabeled, independently drawn text. Controlled few-shot and zero-shot experiments on 25 classification tasks and 3 language models{---}BERT, GPT-2, and Mistral 7B{---}do not find evidence of overoptimism. Furthermore, we demonstrate the importance of repeated subsampling when studying few-shot text classification, and recommend that few-shot learning benchmarks include multiple training folds. Code and data are available here: \\url{https://github.com} (currently omitted for anonymity)."}
{"Title": "From Language to Pixels: Task Recognition and Task Learning in LLMs", "Abstract": "LLMs can perform unseen tasks by learning from a few in-context examples. How in-context learning works is still uncertain. We investigate the mechanisms of in-context learning on a challenging non-language task. The task requires the LLM to generate pixel matrices representing images of basic shapes. We introduce a framework to analyze if this task is solved by recognizing similar formats from the training data (task recognition) or by understanding the instructions and learning the skill de novo during inference (task learning). Our experiments demonstrate that LLMs generate meaningful pixel matrices with task recognition and fail to learn such tasks when encountering unfamiliar formats. Our findings offer insights into LLMs{'} learning mechanisms and their generalization ability to guide future research on their seemingly human-like behavior."}
{"Title": "The SlayQA benchmark of social reasoning: testing gender-inclusive generalization with neopronouns", "Abstract": "We introduce SlayQA, a novel benchmark data set designed to evaluate language models{'} ability to handle gender-inclusive language, specifically the use of neopronouns, in a question-answering setting. Derived from the Social IQa data set, SlayQA modifies context-question-answer triples to include gender-neutral pronouns, creating a significant linguistic distribution shift in comparison to common pre-training corpora like C4 or Dolma. Our results show that state-of-the-art language models struggle with the challenge, exhibiting small, but noticeable performance drops when answering question containing neopronouns compared to those without."}
{"Title": "Automated test generation to evaluate tool-augmented LLMs as conversational AI agents", "Abstract": "Tool-augmented LLMs are a promising approach to create AI agents that can have realistic conversations, follow procedures, and call appropriate functions. However, evaluating them is challenging due to the diversity of possible conversations, and existing datasets focus only on single interactions and function-calling. We present a test generation pipeline to evaluate LLMs as conversational AI agents. Our framework uses LLMs to generate diverse tests grounded on user-defined procedures. For that, we use intermediate graphs to limit the LLM test generator{'}s tendency to hallucinate content that is not grounded on input procedures, and enforces high coverage of the possible conversations. Additionally, we put forward ALMITA, a manually curated dataset for evaluating AI agents in customer support, and use it to evaluate existing LLMs. Our results show that while tool-augmented LLMs perform well in single interactions, they often struggle to handle complete conversations. While our focus is on customer support, our test generation pipeline is general enough to evaluate different AI agents."}
{"Title": "MMLU-SR: A Benchmark for Stress-Testing Reasoning Capability of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "We propose MMLU-SR, a novel dataset designed to measure the true comprehension abilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) by challenging their performance in question-answering tasks with modified terms. We reasoned that an agent that {``}truly{''} understands a concept can still evaluate it when key terms are replaced by suitably defined alternate terms, and sought to differentiate such comprehension from mere text replacement. In our study, we modified standardized test questions by replacing a key term with a dummy word along with its definition. The key term could be in the context of questions, answers, or both questions and answers. Notwithstanding the high scores achieved by recent popular LLMs on the MMLU leaderboard, we found a substantial reduction in model performance after such replacement, suggesting poor comprehension. This new benchmark provides a rigorous benchmark for testing true model comprehension, and poses a challenge to the broader scientific community."}
{"Title": "MLissard: Multilingual Long and Simple Sequential Reasoning Benchmarks", "Abstract": "Language models are now capable of solving tasks that require dealing with long sequences consisting of hundreds of thousands of tokens. However, they often fail on tasks that require repetitive use of simple rules, even on sequences that are much shorter than those seen during training. For example, state-of-the-art LLMs can find common items in two lists with up to 20 items but fail when lists have 80 items. In this paper, we introduce MLissard, a multilingual benchmark designed to evaluate models{'} abilities to process and generate texts of varied lengths and offers a mechanism for controlling sequence complexity. Our evaluation of open-source and proprietary models show a consistent decline in performance across all models and languages as the complexity of the sequence increases. Surprisingly, the use of in-context examples in languages other than English helps increase extrapolation performance significantly."}
{"Title": "MultiPragEval: Multilingual Pragmatic Evaluation of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "As the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) expand, it becomes increasingly important to evaluate them beyond basic knowledge assessment, focusing on higher-level language understanding. This study introduces MultiPragEval, the first multilingual pragmatic evaluation of LLMs, designed for English, German, Korean, and Chinese. Comprising 1200 question units categorized according to Grice{'}s Cooperative Principle and its four conversational maxims, MultiPragEval enables an in-depth assessment of LLMs{'} contextual awareness and their ability to infer implied meanings. Our findings demonstrate that Claude3-Opus significantly outperforms other models in all tested languages, establishing a state-of-the-art in the field. Among open-source models, Solar-10.7B and Qwen1.5-14B emerge as strong competitors. By analyzing pragmatic inference, we provide valuable insights into the capabilities essential for advanced language comprehension in AI systems."}
{"Title": "Beyond the Numbers: Transparency in Relation Extraction Benchmark Creation and Leaderboards", "Abstract": "This paper investigates the transparency in the creation of benchmarks and the use of leaderboards for measuring progress in NLP, with a focus on the relation extraction (RE) task. Existing RE benchmarks often suffer from insufficient documentation, lacking crucial details such as data sources, inter-annotator agreement, the algorithms used for the selection of instances for datasets, and information on potential biases like dataset imbalance. Progress in RE is frequently measured by leaderboards that rank systems based on evaluation methods, typically limited to aggregate metrics like F1-score. However, the absence of detailed performance analysis beyond these metrics can obscure the true generalisation capabilities of models. Our analysis reveals that widely used RE benchmarks, such as TACRED and NYT, tend to be highly imbalanced and contain noisy labels. Moreover, the lack of class-based performance metrics fails to accurately reflect model performance across datasets with a large number of relation types. These limitations should be carefully considered when reporting progress in RE. While our discussion centers on the transparency of RE benchmarks and leaderboards, the observations we discuss are broadly applicable to other NLP tasks as well. Rather than undermining the significance and value of existing RE benchmarks and the development of new models, this paper advocates for improved documentation and more rigorous evaluation to advance the field."}
{"Title": "Is artificial intelligence still intelligence? LLMs generalize to novel adjective-noun pairs, but don't mimic the full human distribution", "Abstract": "Inferences from adjective-noun combinations like {``}Is artificial intelligence still intelligence?{''} provide a good test bed for LLMs{'} understanding of meaning and compositional generalization capability, since there are many combinations which are novel to both humans and LLMs but nevertheless elicit convergent human judgments. We study a range of LLMs and find that the largest models we tested are able to draw human-like inferences when the inference is determined by context and can generalize to unseen adjective-noun combinations. We also propose three methods to evaluate LLMs on these inferences out of context, where there is a distribution of human-like answers rather than a single correct answer. We find that LLMs show a human-like distribution on at most 75{\\%} of our dataset, which is promising but still leaves room for improvement."}
{"Title": "CHIE: Generative MRC Evaluation for in-context QA with Correctness, Helpfulness, Irrelevancy, and Extraneousness Aspects", "Abstract": "The evaluation of generative models in Machine Reading Comprehension (MRC) presents distinct difficulties, as traditional metrics like BLEU, ROUGE, METEOR, Exact Match, and F1 score often struggle to capture the nuanced and diverse responses. While embedding-based metrics such as BERTScore and BARTScore focus on semantic similarity, they still fail to fully address aspects such as recognizing additional helpful information and rewarding contextual faithfulness. Recent advances in large language model (LLM) based metrics offer more fine-grained evaluations, but challenges such as score clustering remain. This paper introduces a multi-aspect evaluation framework, CHIE,incorporating aspects of \\textbf{C}orrectness, \\textbf{H}elpfulness, \\textbf{I}rrelevance, and \\textbf{E}xtraneousness. Our approach, which uses binary categorical values rather than continuous rating scales, aligns well with human judgments, indicating its potential as a comprehensive and effective evaluation method."}
{"Title": "Investigating the Generalizability of Pretrained Language Models across Multiple Dimensions: A Case Study of NLI and MRC", "Abstract": "Generalization refers to the ability of machine learning models to perform well on dataset distributions different from the one it was trained on. While several pre-existing works have characterized the generalizability of NLP models across different dimensions, such as domain shift, adversarial perturbations, or compositional variations, most studies were carried out in a stand-alone setting, emphasizing a single dimension of interest. We bridge this gap by systematically investigating the generalizability of pre-trained language models across different architectures, sizes, and training strategies, over multiple dimensions for the task of natural language inference and question answering. Our results indicate that model instances typically exhibit consistent generalization trends, i.e., they generalize equally well (or poorly) across most scenarios, and this ability is correlated with model architecture, base dataset performance, size, and training mechanism. We hope this research motivates further work in a) developing a multi-dimensional generalization benchmark for systematic evaluation and b) examining the reasons behind models{'} generalization abilities. The code and data are available at https://github.com/sagnik/md-gen-nlp, and the trained models are released at https://huggingface.co/varun-v-rao."}
{"Title": "OmniDialog: A Multimodal Benchmark for Generalization Across Text, Visual, and Audio Modalities", "Abstract": "We introduce $\\textit{OmniDialog}$ {---} the first trimodal comprehensive benchmark grounded in a knowledge graph (Wikidata) to evaluate the generalization of Large Multimodal Models (LMMs) across three modalities. Our benchmark consists of more than 4,000 dialogues, each averaging 10 turns, all annotated and cross-validated by human experts. The dialogues in our dataset are designed to prevent shortcut learning by incorporating various formats and misleading or irrelevant multimodal cues. We also evaluate both multimodal and unimodal models to gain insights into how they process modality inputs introduced in the conversation."}
{"Title": "Towards a new Benchmark for Emotion Detection in NLP: A Unifying Framework of Recent Corpora", "Abstract": "Emotion recognition in text is a complex and evolving field that has garnered considerable interest. This paper addresses the pressing need to explore and experiment with new corpora annotated with emotions. We identified several corpora presented since 2018. We restricted this study to English single-labeled data. Nevertheless, the datasets vary in source, domain, topic, emotion types, and distributions. As a basis for benchmarking, we conducted emotion detection experiments by fine-tuning a pretrained model and compared our outcomes with results from the original publications. More importantly, in our efforts to combine existing resources, we created a unified corpus from these diverse datasets and evaluated the impact of training on that corpus versus on the training set for each corpus. Our approach aims to streamline research by offering a unified platform for emotion detection to aid comparisons and benchmarking, addressing a significant gap in the current landscape. Additionally, we present a discussion of related practices and challenges. Our code and dataset information are available at https://github.com/a-koufakou/EmoDetect-Unify. We hope this will enable the NLP community to leverage this unified framework towards a new benchmark in emotion detection."}
{"Title": "SambaLingo: Teaching Large Language Models New Languages", "Abstract": "Despite the widespread availability of LLMs, there remains a substantial gap in their capabilities and availability across diverse languages. One approach to address these issues has been to take an existing pre-trained LLM and continue to train it on new languages. While prior works have experimented with language adaptation, many questions around best practices and methodology have not been covered. In this paper, we present a comprehensive investigation into the adaptation of LLMs to new languages. Our study covers the key components in this process, including vocabulary extension, direct preference optimization and the data scarcity problem for human alignment in low resource languages. We scale these experiments across 9 languages and 2 parameter scales (7B and 70B). We compare our models against Llama 2, Aya-101, XGLM, BLOOM and existing language experts, outperforming all prior published baselines. Additionally, all evaluation code and checkpoints are made public to facilitate future research."}
{"Title": "What an Elegant Bridge: Multilingual LLMs are Biased Similarly in Different Languages", "Abstract": "This paper investigates biases of Large Language Models (LLMs) through the lens of grammatical gender. Drawing inspiration from seminal works in psycholinguistics, particularly the study of gender{'}s influence on language perception, we leverage multilingual LLMs to revisit and expand upon the foundational experiments of Boroditsky (2003). Employing LLMs as a novel method for examining psycholinguistic biases related to grammatical gender, we prompt a model to describe nouns with adjectives in various languages, focusing specifically on languages with grammatical gender. In particular, we look at adjective co-occurrences across gender and languages, and train a binary classifier to predict grammatical gender given adjectives an LLM uses to describe a noun. Surprisingly, we find that a simple classifier can not only predict noun gender above chance but also exhibit cross-language transferability. We show that while LLMs may describe words differently in different languages, they are biased similarly."}
{"Title": "Adapting Open-Source Generative Large Language Models for Low-Resource Languages: A Case Study for Turkish", "Abstract": "Despite advancements in English-dominant generative large language models, further development is needed for low-resource languages to enhance global accessibility. The primary methods for representing these languages are monolingual and multilingual pretraining. Monolingual pretraining is expensive due to hardware requirements, and multilingual models often have uneven performance across languages. This study explores an alternative solution by adapting large language models, primarily trained on English, to low-resource languages. We assess various strategies, including continual training, instruction fine-tuning, task-specific fine-tuning, and vocabulary extension. The results show that continual training improves language comprehension, as reflected in perplexity scores, and task-specific tuning generally enhances performance of downstream tasks. However, extending the vocabulary shows no substantial benefits. Additionally, while larger models improve task performance with few-shot tuning, multilingual models perform worse than their monolingual counterparts when adapted."}
{"Title": "An Efficient Approach for Studying Cross-Lingual Transfer in Multilingual Language Models", "Abstract": "The capacity and effectiveness of pre-trained multilingual models (MLMs) for zero-shot cross-lingual transfer is well established. However, phenomena of positive or negative transfer, and the effect of language choice still need to be fully understood, especially in the complex setting of massively multilingual LMs. We propose an \\textit{efficient} method to study transfer language influence in zero-shot performance on another target language. Unlike previous work, our approach \\textit{disentangles downstream tasks from language}, using dedicated adapter units. Our findings suggest that some languages do not largely affect others, while some languages, especially ones unseen during pre-training, can be extremely beneficial or detrimental for different target languages. We find that no transfer language is beneficial for all target languages. We do, curiously, observe languages previously unseen by MLMs consistently benefit from transfer from \\textit{almost any} language. We additionally use our modular approach to quantify negative interference efficiently and categorize languages accordingly. Furthermore, we provide a list of promising transfer-target language configurations that consistently lead to target language performance improvements."}
{"Title": "Are You Sure? Rank Them Again: Repeated Ranking For Better Preference Datasets", "Abstract": "Training Large Language Models (LLMs) with Reinforcement Learning from AI Feedback (RLAIF) aligns model outputs more closely with human preferences. This involves an evaluator model ranking multiple candidate responses to user prompts. However, the rankings from popular evaluator models such as GPT-4 can be inconsistent.We propose the Repeat Ranking method, in which we evaluate the same responses multiple times and train only on those responses which are consistently ranked. Using 2,714 training prompts in 62 languages, we generated responses from 7 top multilingual LLMs and had GPT-4 rank them five times each. Evaluating on MT-Bench chat benchmarks in six languages, our method outperformed the standard practice of training on all available prompts.Our work highlights the quality versus quantity trade-off in RLAIF dataset generation and offers a stackable strategy for enhancing dataset and thus model quality."}
{"Title": "Tagengo: A Multilingual Chat Dataset", "Abstract": "Open source large language models (LLMs) have shown great improvements in recent times. However, many of these models are focused solely on popular spoken languages. We present a high quality dataset of more than 70k prompt-response pairs in 74 languages which consist of human generated prompts and synthetic responses. We use this dataset to train a state-of-the-art open source English LLM to chat multilingually.We evaluate our model on MT-Bench chat benchmarks in 6 languages, finding that our multilingual model outperforms previous state-of-the-art open source LLMs across each language. We further find that training on more multilingual data is beneficial to the performance in a chosen target language (Japanese) compared to simply training on only data in that language.These results indicate the necessity of training on large amounts of high quality multilingual data to make a more accessible LLM."}
{"Title": "Language and Task Arithmetic with Parameter-Efficient Layers for Zero-Shot Summarization", "Abstract": "Parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) using labeled task data can significantly improve the performance of large language models (LLMs) on the downstream task. However, there are 7000 languages in the world and many of these languages lack labeled data for real-world language generation tasks. In this paper, we propose to improve zero-shot cross-lingual transfer by composing expert modules trained separately on language or task data. Our method composes $\\textit{language}$ and $\\textit{task}$ PEFT adapters via element-wise arithmetic operations to leverage unlabeled data and English labeled data. We extend our approach to cases where labeled data from more languages is available and propose to arithmetically compose PEFT adapters trained on languages related to the target. Empirical results on summarization demonstrate that our method is a strategy that obtains consistent gains using minimal training of PEFT parameters."}
{"Title": "Modeling Bilingual Sentence Processing: Evaluating RNN and Transformer Architectures for Cross-Language Structural Priming", "Abstract": "This study evaluates the performance of Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) and Transformer models in replicating cross-language structural priming, a key indicator of abstract grammatical representations in human language processing. Focusing on Chinese-English priming, which involves two typologically distinct languages, we examine how these models handle the robust phenomenon of structural priming, where exposure to a particular sentence structure increases the likelihood of selecting a similar structure subsequently. Our findings indicate that transformers outperform RNNs in generating primed sentence structures, with accuracy rates that exceed 25.84{\\%} to 33. 33{\\%}. This challenges the conventional belief that human sentence processing primarily involves recurrent and immediate processing and suggests a role for cue-based retrieval mechanisms. This work contributes to our understanding of how computational models may reflect human cognitive processes across diverse language families."}
{"Title": "Recipe for Zero-shot POS Tagging: Is It Useful in Realistic Scenarios?", "Abstract": "POS tagging plays a fundamental role in numerous applications. While POS taggers are highly accurate in well-resourced settings, they lag behind in cases of limited or missing training data. This paper focuses on POS tagging for languages with limited data. We seek to identify favourable characteristics of datasets for training POS tagging models using related languages without specific training on the target language. This is a zero-shot approach. We investigate both mono- and multilingual models trained on related languages and compare their accuracies. Additionally, we compare these results with models trained directly on the target language itself. We do this for three target low-resource languages, for each of which we select several support languages. Our research highlights the importance of accurate dataset selection for developing effective zero-shot POS tagging models. Particularly, a strong linguistic relationship and high-quality datasets ensure optimal results. For extremely low-resource languages, zero-shot training proves to be a viable option."}
{"Title": "Gender-specific Machine Translation with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "{`}While machine translation (MT) systems have seen significant improvements,it is still common for translations to reflect societal biases, such as genderbias. Decoder-only language models (LLMs) have demonstrated potential in MT, albeitwith performance slightly lagging behind traditional encoder-decoder neural machinetranslation (NMT) systems. However, LLMs offer a unique advantage: the abilityto control the properties of the output through prompting. In this study, we leveragethis flexibility to explore Llama{''}s capability to produce gender-specific translations.Our results indicate that Llama can generate gender-specific translations withtranslation quality and gender bias comparable to NLLB, a state-of-the-art multilingualNMT system.{'}"}
{"Title": "Jina-ColBERT-v2: A General-Purpose Multilingual Late Interaction Retriever", "Abstract": "Multi-vector dense models, such as ColBERT, have proven highly effective in information retrieval. ColBERT{'}s late interaction scoring approximates the joint query-document attention seen in cross-encoders while maintaining inference efficiency closer to traditional dense retrieval models, thanks to its bi-encoder architecture and recent optimizations in indexing and search. In this paper, we introduce a novel architecture and a training framework to support long context window and multilingual retrieval. Leveraging Matryoshka Representation Loss, we further demonstrate that the reducing the embedding dimensionality from 128 to 64 has insignificant impact on the model{'}s retrieval performance and cut storage requirements by up to 50{\\%}. Our new model, Jina-ColBERT-v2, demonstrates strong performance across a range of English and multilingual retrieval tasks,"}
{"Title": "Cross-Lingual Named Entity Recognition for Low-Resource Languages: A Hindi-Nepali Case Study Using Multilingual BERT Models", "Abstract": "This study investigates the potential of cross-lingual transfer learning for Named Entity Recognition (NER) between Hindi and Nepali, two languages that, despite their linguistic similarities, face significant disparities in available resources. By leveraging multilingual BERT models, including RemBERT, BERT Multilingual, MuRIL, and DistilBERT Multilingual, the research examines whether pre-training them on a resource-rich language like Hindi can enhance NER performance in a resource-constrained language like Nepali and vice versa. The study conducts experiments in both monolingual and cross-lingual settings to evaluate the models{'} effectiveness in transferring linguistic knowledge between the two languages. The findings reveal that while RemBERT and MuRIL perform well in monolingual contexts{---}RemBERT excelling in Hindi and MuRIL in Nepali{---}BERT Multilingual performs comparatively best in cross-lingual scenarios, in generalizing features across the languages. Although DistilBERT Multilingual demonstrates slightly lower performance in cross-lingual tasks, it balances efficiency with competitive results. The study underscores the importance of model selection based on linguistic and resource-specific contexts, highlighting that general-purpose models like BERT Multilingual are particularly well-suited for cross-lingual applications."}
{"Title": "Parameter-efficient Adaptation of Multilingual Multimodal Models for Low-resource ASR", "Abstract": "Automatic speech recognition (ASR) for low-resource languages remains a challenge due to the scarcity of labeled training data. Parameter-efficient fine-tuning and text-only adaptation are two popular methods that have been used to address such low-resource settings. In this work, we investigate how these techniques can be effectively combined using a multilingual multimodal model like SeamlessM4T. Multimodal models are able to leverage unlabeled text via text-only adaptation with further parameter-efficient ASR fine-tuning, thus boosting ASR performance. We also show cross-lingual transfer from a high-resource language, achieving up to a relative 17{\\%} WER reduction over baseline in an extremely low-resource setting without any labeled speech."}
{"Title": "Towards Cross-Linguistic Semantic Grounding using Dictionary Graph Analysis", "Abstract": "Previous work has explored the structure of dictionaries as directed graphs, with arcs between words when one word is used in the definition of another. We analyze the efficacy of these methodologies and explore the cross-linguistic patterns of the strongly connected components of multiple monolingual dictionaries. We find that the number of sources in the condensation graph of a directed dictionary graph is roughly stable across multiple different languages, and present future research directions."}
{"Title": "Vikhr: Constructing a State-of-the-art Bilingual Open-Source Instruction-Following Large Language Model for Russian", "Abstract": "There has been a surge in the development of various Large Language Models (LLMs). However, text generation for languages other than English often faces significant challenges, including poor generation quality and reduced computational performance due to the disproportionate representation of tokens in the model{'}s vocabulary. In this work, we address these issues by developing a pipeline for adaptation of English-oriented pre-trained models to other languages and constructing efficient bilingual LLMs. Using this pipeline, we construct Vikhr, a state-of-the-art bilingual open-source instruction-following LLM designed specifically for the Russian language. {``}Vikhr{''} refers to the name of the Mistral LLM series and means a {``}strong gust of wind.{''}Unlike previous Russian-language models that typically rely on LoRA adapters on top of English-oriented models, sacrificing performance for lower training costs, Vikhr features an adapted tokenizer vocabulary and undergoes the continued pre-training and instruction tuning of all weights. This not only enhances the model{'}s performance but also significantly improves its computational and contextual efficiency.The remarkable performance of Vikhr across various Russian-language benchmarks can also be attributed to our efforts in expanding instruction datasets and corpora for continued pre-training. Vikhr not only sets the new state of the art among open-source LLMs for Russian but even outperforms some proprietary closed-source models on certain benchmarks. The model weights, instruction sets, and code are publicly available."}
{"Title": "Mitigating the Linguistic Gap with Phonemic Representations for Robust Cross-lingual Transfer", "Abstract": "Approaches to improving multilingual language understanding often struggle with significant performance gaps between high-resource and low-resource languages. While there are efforts to align the languages in a single latent space to mitigate such gaps, how different input-level representations influence such gaps has not been investigated, particularly with phonemic inputs. We hypothesize that the performance gaps are affected by representation discrepancies between those languages, and revisit the use of phonemic representations as a means to mitigate these discrepancies.To demonstrate the effectiveness of phonemic representations, we present experiments on three representative cross-lingual tasks on 12 languages in total. The results show that phonemic representations exhibit higher similarities between languages compared to orthographic representations, and it consistently outperforms grapheme-based baseline model on languages that are relatively low-resourced.We present quantitative evidence from three cross-lingual tasks that demonstrate the effectiveness of phonemic representations, and it is further justified by a theoretical analysis of the cross-lingual performance gap."}
{"Title": "Leveraging Adapters for Improved Cross-lingual Transfer for Low-Resource Creole MT", "Abstract": "{---}{---}{---}{--} EXTENDED ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION {---}{---}{---}{--}Creole languages are low-resource languages, often genetically related to languages like English, French, and Portuguese, due to their linguistic histories with colonialism (DeGraff, 2003). As such, Creoles stand to benefit greatly from both data-efficient methods and transfer-learning from high-resource languages. At the same time, it has been observed by Lent et al. (2022b) that machine translation (MT) is a highly desired language technology by speakers of many Creoles. To this end, recent works have contributed new datasets, allowing for the development and evaluation of MT systems for Creoles (Robinson et al., 2024; Lent et al. 2024). In this work, we explore the use of the limited monolingual and parallel data for Creoles using parameter-efficient adaptation methods. Specifically, we compare the performance of different adapter architectures over the set of available benchmarks. We find adapters a promising approach for Creoles because they are parameter-efficient and have been shown to leverage transfer learning between related languages (Faisal and Anastasopoulos, 2022). While we perform experiments across multiple Creoles, we present only on Haitian Creole in this extended abstract. For future work, we aim to explore the potentials for leveraging other high-resourced languages for parameter-efficient transfer learning."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Multilingual Long-Context Models for Retrieval and Reasoning", "Abstract": "Recent large language models (LLMs) demonstrate impressive capabilities in handling long contexts, some exhibiting near-perfect recall on synthetic retrieval tasks. However, these evaluations have mainly focused on English text and involved a single target sentence within lengthy contexts. Our work investigates how LLM performance generalizes to multilingual settings with multiple hidden target sentences. We create a new dataset {--} mLongRR {--} to comprehensively evaluate several multilingual long-context LLMs on retrieval and reasoning tasks across five languages: English, Vietnamese, Indonesian, Swahili, and Somali. These languages share the Latin script but belong to distinct language families and resource levels. Our analysis reveals a significant performance gap between languages. The best-performing models such as Gemini-1.5 and GPT-4o, achieve around 96{\\%} accuracy in English to around 36{\\%} in Somali with a single target sentence. However, this accuracy drops to 40{\\%} in English and 0{\\%} in Somali when dealing with three target sentences. Our findings highlight the challenges long-context LLMs face when processing longer contexts, an increase in the number of target sentences, or languages of lower resource levels."}
{"Title": "Community OSCAR: A Community Effort for Multilingual Web Data", "Abstract": "The development of large language models (LLMs) relies heavily on extensive, high-quality datasets. Publicly available datasets focus predominantly on English, leaving other language communities behind. To address this issue, we introduce Community OSCAR, a multilingual dataset initiative designed to address the gap between English and non-English data availability. Through a collective effort, Community OSCAR covers over 150 languages with 45 billion documents, totaling over 345 TiB of data. Initial results indicate that Community OSCAR provides valuable raw data for training LLMs and enhancing the performance of multilingual models. This work aims to contribute to the ongoing advancements in multilingual NLP and to support a more inclusive AI ecosystem by making high-quality, multilingual data more accessible to those working with low-resource languages."}
{"Title": "Leveraging LLMs for Translating and Classifying Mental Health Data", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly used in medical fields. In mental health support, the early identification of linguistic markers associated with mental health conditions can provide valuable support to mental health professionals, and reduce long waiting times for patients.Despite the benefits of LLMs for mental health support, there is limited research on their application in mental health systems for languages other than English. Our study addresses this gap by focusing on the detection of depression severity in Greek through user-generated posts which are automatically translated from English. Our results show that GPT3.5-turbo is not very successful in identifying the severity of depression in English, and it has a varying performance in Greek as well. Our study underscores the necessity for further research, especially in languages with less resources.Also, careful implementation is necessary to ensure that LLMs are used effectively in mental health platforms, and human supervision remains crucial to avoid misdiagnosis."}
{"Title": "Bridging the Bosphorus: Advancing Turkish Large Language Models through Strategies for Low-Resource Language Adaptation and Benchmarking", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) are becoming crucial across various fields, emphasizing the urgency for high-quality models in underrepresented languages. This study explores the unique challenges faced by low-resource languages, such as data scarcity, model selection, evaluation, and computational limitations, with a special focus on Turkish. We conduct an in-depth analysis to evaluate the impact of training strategies, model choices, and data availability on the performance of LLMs designed for underrepresented languages. Our approach includes two methodologies: (i) adapting existing LLMs originally pretrained in English to understand Turkish, and (ii) developing a model from the ground up using Turkish pretraining data, both supplemented with supervised fine-tuning on a novel Turkish instruction-tuning dataset aimed at enhancing reasoning capabilities. The relative performance of these methods is evaluated through the creation of a new leaderboard for Turkish LLMs, featuring benchmarks that assess different reasoning and knowledge skills. Furthermore, we conducted experiments on data and model scaling, both during pretraining and fine-tuning, simultaneously emphasizing the capacity for knowledge transfer across languages and addressing the challenges of catastrophic forgetting encountered during fine-tuning on a different language. Our goal is to offer a detailed guide for advancing the LLM framework in low-resource linguistic contexts, thereby making natural language processing (NLP) benefits more globally accessible."}
{"Title": "Unsupervised Text Representation Learning via Instruction-Tuning for Zero-Shot Dense Retrieval", "Abstract": "Dense retrieval systems are commonly used for information retrieval (IR). They rely on learning text representations through an encoder and usually require supervised modeling via labelled data which can be costly to obtain or simply unavailable. In this study, we introduce a novel unsupervised text representation learning technique via instruction-tuning the pre-trained encoder-decoder large language model (LLM) under the dual-encoder retrieval framework. We demonstrate on multiple languages that the corpus representation can be augmented by the representations of relevant synthetic queries generated by the instruct-tuned LLM founded on the Rao-Blackwell theorem. Furthermore, we effectively align the query and corpus text representation with self-instruct tuning. We evaluate our proposed method under low-resource settings on three English, two German and one Portuguese retrieval datasets measuring NDCG@10, MRR@100, Recall@100. We significantly improve the average zero-shot retrieval performance on all metrics, increasing out-of-box FLAN-T5 model variations by [4.73{\\%}, 6.15{\\%}] in absolute NDCG@10 and exceeding four supervised dense retrievers."}
{"Title": "Language Bias in Multilingual Information Retrieval: The Nature of the Beast and Mitigation Methods", "Abstract": "Language fairness in multilingual information retrieval (MLIR) systems is crucial for ensuring equitable access to information across diverse languages. This paper sheds light on the issue, based on the assumption that queries in different languages, but with identical semantics, should yield equivalent ranking lists when retrieving on the same multilingual documents. We evaluate the degree of fairness using both traditional retrieval methods, and a DPR neural ranker based on mBERT and XLM-R. Additionally, we introduce {`}LaKDA{'}, a novel loss designed to mitigate language biases in neural MLIR approaches. Our analysis exposes intrinsic language biases in current MLIR technologies, with notable disparities across the retrieval methods, and the effectiveness of LaKDA in enhancing language fairness."}
{"Title": "Representational Isomorphism and Alignment of Multilingual Large Language Models", "Abstract": "In this extended abstract, we investigate the capability of Large Language Models (LLMs) to represent texts in multilingual contexts. Our findings reveal that sentence representations derived from LLMs exhibit a high degree of isomorphism across languages. This existing isomorphism facilitates representational alignments in few-shot settings. Specifically, by applying a contrastive objective at the representation level with only a small number (e.g., 100) of translation pairs, we significantly improve models{'} performance on Semantic Textual Similarity (STS) tasks across languages."}
{"Title": "Generalization Measures for Zero-Shot Cross-Lingual Transfer", "Abstract": "Building robust and reliable machine learning systems requires models with the capacity to generalize their knowledge to interpret unseen inputs with different characteristics. Traditional language model evaluation tasks lack informative metrics about model generalization, and their applicability in new settings is often measured using task and language-specific downstream performance, which is lacking in many languages and tasks. To address this gap, we explore a set of efficient and reliable measures that could aid in computing more information related to the generalization capability of language models, particularly in cross-lingual zero-shot settings. Our central hypothesis is that the sharpness of a model{'}s loss landscape, i.e., the representation of loss values over its weight space, can indicate its generalization potential, with a flatter landscape suggesting better generalization. We propose a novel and stable algorithm to reliably compute the sharpness of a model optimum, and demonstrate its correlation with successful cross-lingual transfer."}
{"Title": "Detecting and Translating Language Ambiguity with Multilingual LLMs", "Abstract": "Most languages could be ambiguous, which means the same conveyed text or speech, results in different actions by different readers or listeners. In this project, we propose a method to detect the ambiguity of a sentence using translation by multilingual LLMs. In particular, we hypothesize that a good machine translator should preserve the ambiguity of sentences in all target languages. Therefore, we investigate whether ambiguity is encoded in the hidden representation of a translation model or, instead, if only a single meaning is encoded. In our experiments, we have been able to predict ambiguity of sentences with high accuracy using machine translation without direct use of semantics and only based on the reconstruction error of a function that maps the forward and backward translation hidden representations to each other. The potential applications of the proposed approach span i) detecting ambiguous sentences, ii) fine-tuning existing multilingual LLMs to preserve ambiguous information, and iii) developing AI systems that can generate ambiguity-free languages when needed."}
{"Title": "MLT-DR: Multi-Lingual/Task Demonstration RetrievalAn Attempt towards Generalized Retriever for In-Context Learning", "Abstract": "This paper presents Multi-Lingual/Task Demonstration Retrieval (MLT-DR) for in-context learning with Large Language Models (LLMs).Our goal is to investigate how dense demonstration retrieval models are generalized across languages and tasks.We first convert 81 tasks into a common format, covering various languages, task types, and domains.For 8 English-based tasks among them, we use machine translation to create synthetic multi/cross-lingual tasks, by translating the examples into non-English languages to explicitly cover more than 130 languages.We then use an instruction-tuned LLM to estimate utility of demonstrations for all the tasks to train the demonstration retrieval models.In our experiments, we show an interesting counterintuitive observation; to compute embeddings of demonstrations, using both the input and ground-truth output hurts the generalization ability of the retriever on unseen tasks whose output space is quite different from those in the seen task set.We also examine that our retriever robustly works even with LLMs that we did not touch during the development of the models.The retrieval models{'} checkpoints are publicly available at \\url{URL-available-upon-publication}."}
{"Title": "McGill NLP Group Submission to the MRL 2024 Shared Task: Ensembling Enhances Effectiveness of Multilingual Small LMs", "Abstract": "We present our systems for the three tasks and five languages included in the MRL 2024 Shared Task on Multilingual Multi-task Information Retrieval: (1) Named Entity Recognition, (2) Free-form Question Answering, and (3) Multiple-choice Question Answering. For each task, we explored the impact of selecting different multilingual language models for fine-tuning across various target languages, and implemented an ensemble system that generates final outputs based on predictions from multiple fine-tuned models. All models are large language models fine-tuned on task-specific data. Our experimental results show that a more balanced dataset would yield better results. However, when training data for certain languages are scarce, fine-tuning on a large amount of English data supplemented by a small amount of {``}triggering data{''} in the target language can produce decent results."}
{"Title": "CUNI and LMU Submission to the MRL 2024 Shared Task on Multi-lingual Multi-task Information Retrieval", "Abstract": "We present the joint CUNI and LMU submission to the MRL 2024 Shared Task on Multi-lingual Multi-task Information Retrieval.The shared task objective was to explore how we can deploy modern methods in NLP in multi-lingual low-resource settings, tested on two sub-tasks: Named-entity recognition and question answering.Our solutions to the subtasks are based on data acquisition and model adaptation.We compare the performance of our submitted systems with the translate-test approachwhich proved to be the most useful in the previous edition of the shared task.Our results show that using more data as well as fine-tuning recent multilingual pre-trained models leads to considerable improvements over the translate-test baseline.Our code is available at https://github.com/ufal/mrl2024-multilingual-ir-shared-task."}
{"Title": "Findings of the 2nd Shared Task on Multi-lingual Multi-task Information Retrieval at MRL 2024", "Abstract": "Large language models (LLMs) demonstrate exceptional proficiency in both the comprehension and generation of textual data, particularly in English, a language for which extensive public benchmarks have been established across a wide range of natural language processing (NLP) tasks. Nonetheless, their performance in multilingual contexts and specialized domains remains less rigorously validated, raising questions about their reliability and generalizability across linguistically diverse and domain-specific settings. The second edition of the Shared Task on Multilingual Multitask Information Retrieval aims to provide a comprehensive and inclusive multilingual evaluation benchmark which aids assessing the ability of multilingual LLMs to capture logical, factual, or causal relationships within lengthy text contexts and generate language under sparse settings, particularly in scenarios with under-resourced languages. The shared task consists of two subtasks crucial to information retrieval: Named entity recognition (NER) and reading comprehension (RC), in 7 data-scarce languages: Azerbaijani, Swiss German, Turkish and , which previously lacked annotated resources in information retrieval tasks. This year specifally focus on the multiple-choice question answering evaluation setting which provides a more objective setting for comparing different methods across languages."}
{"Title": "LeGen: Complex Information Extraction from Legal sentences using Generative Models", "Abstract": "Constructing legal knowledge graphs from unstructured legal texts is a complex challenge due to the intricate nature of legal language. While open information extraction (OIE) techniques can convert text into triples of the form subject, relation, object, they often fall short of capturing the nuanced relationships within lengthy legal sentences, necessitating more sophisticated approaches known as complex information extraction. This paper proposes $LeGen$ {--} an end-to-end approach leveraging pre-trained large language models (GPT-4o, T5, BART) to perform complex information extraction from legal sentences. $LeGen$ learns and represents the discourse structure of legal sentences, capturing both their complexity and semantics. It minimizes error propagation typical in multi-step pipelines and achieves up to a 32.2{\\%} gain on the Indian Legal benchmark. Additionally, it demonstrates competitive performance on open information extraction benchmarks. A promising application of the resulting legal knowledge graphs is in developing question-answering systems for government schemes, tailored to the Next Billion Users who struggle with the complexity of legal language. Our code and data are available at https://github.com/prajnaupadhyay/LegalIE"}
{"Title": "Summarizing Long Regulatory Documents with a Multi-Step Pipeline", "Abstract": "Due to their length and complexity, long regulatory texts are challenging to summarize. To address this, a multi-step extractive-abstractive architecture is proposed to handle lengthy regulatory documents more effectively. In this paper, we show that the effectiveness of a two-step architecture for summarizing long regulatory texts varies significantly depending on the model used. Specifically, the two-step architecture improves the performance of decoder-only models. For abstractive encoder-decoder models with short context lengths, the effectiveness of an extractive step varies, whereas for long-context encoder-decoder models, the extractive step worsens their performance. This research also highlights the challenges of evaluating generated texts, as evidenced by the differing results from human and automated evaluations. Most notably, human evaluations favoured language models pretrained on legal text, while automated metrics rank general-purpose language models higher. The results underscore the importance of selecting the appropriate summarization strategy based on model architecture and context length."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Legal Expertise in Large Language Models through Composite Model Integration: The Development and Evaluation of Law-Neo", "Abstract": "Although large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT have demonstrated considerable capabilities in general domains, they often lack proficiency in specialized fields. Enhancing a model{'}s performance in a specific domain, such as law, while maintaining low costs, has been a significant challenge. Existing methods, such as fine-tuning or building mixture of experts (MoE) models, often struggle to balance model parameters, training costs, and domain-specific performance. Inspired by composition to augment language models, we have developed Law-Neo, a novel model designed to enhance legal LLMs. This model significantly improves the model{'}s legal domain expertise at minimal training costs, while retaining the logical capabilities of a large-scale anchor model. Our Law-Neo model outperformed other models in comprehensive experiments on multiple legal task benchmarks, demonstrating the effectiveness of this approach."}
{"Title": "uOttawa at LegalLens-2024: Transformer-based Classification Experiments", "Abstract": "This paper presents the methods used for LegalLens-2024, which focused on detecting legal violations within unstructured textual data and associating these violations with potentially affected individuals. The shared task included two subtasks: A) Legal Named Entity Recognition (L-NER) and B) Legal Natural Language Inference (L-NLI). For subtask A, we utilized the spaCy library, while for subtask B, we employed a combined model incorporating RoBERTa and CNN. Our results were 86.3{\\%} in the L-NER subtask and 88.25{\\%} in the L-NLI subtask. Overall, our paper demonstrates the effectiveness of transformer models in addressing complex tasks in the legal domain."}
{"Title": "Quebec Automobile Insurance Question-Answering With Retrieval-Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) perform outstandingly in various downstream tasks, and the use of the Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) architecture has been shown to improve performance for legal question answering (Nuruzzaman and Hussain, 2020; Louis et al., 2024). However, there are limited applications in insurance questions-answering, a specific type of legal document. This paper introduces two corpora: the Quebec Automobile Insurance Expertise Reference Corpus and a set of 82 Expert Answers to Layperson Automobile Insurance Questions. Our study leverages both corpora to automatically and manually assess a GPT4-o, a state-of-the-art (SOTA) LLM, to answer Quebec automobile insurance questions. Our results demonstrate that, on average, using our expertise reference corpus generates better responses on both automatic and manual evaluation metrics. However, they also highlight that LLM QA is unreliable enough for mass utilization in critical areas. Indeed, our results show that between 5{\\%} to 13{\\%} of answered questions include a false statement that could lead to customer misunderstanding."}
{"Title": "Rethinking Legal Judgement Prediction in a Realistic Scenario in the Era of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "This study investigates judgment prediction in a realistic scenario within the context of Indian judgments, utilizing a range of transformer-based models, including InLegalBERT, BERT, and XLNet, alongside LLMs such as Llama-2 and GPT-3.5 Turbo. In this realistic scenario, we simulate how judgments are predicted at the point when a case is presented for a decision in court, using only the information available at that time, such as the facts of the case, statutes, precedents, and arguments. This approach mimics real-world conditions, where decisions must be made without the benefit of hindsight, unlike retrospective analyses often found in previous studies. For transformer models, we experiment with hierarchical transformers and the summarization of judgment facts to optimize input for these models. Our experiments with LLMs reveal that GPT-3.5 Turbo excels in realistic scenarios, demonstrating robust performance in judgment prediction. Furthermore, incorporating additional legal information, such as statutes and precedents, significantly improves the outcome of the prediction task. The LLMs also provide explanations for their predictions. To evaluate the quality of these predictions and explanations, we introduce two human evaluation metrics: Clarity and Linking. Our findings from both automatic and human evaluations indicate that, despite advancements in LLMs, they are yet to achieve expert-level performance in judgment prediction and explanation tasks."}
{"Title": "The CLC-UKET Dataset: Benchmarking Case Outcome Prediction for the UK Employment Tribunal", "Abstract": "This paper explores the intersection of technological innovation and access to justice by developing a benchmark for predicting case outcomes in the UK Employment Tribunal (UKET). To address the challenge of extensive manual annotation, the study employs a large language model (LLM) for automatic annotation, resulting in the creation of the CLC-UKET dataset. The dataset consists of approximately 19,000 UKET cases and their metadata. Comprehensive legal annotations cover facts, claims, precedent references, statutory references, case outcomes, reasons and jurisdiction codes. Facilitated by the CLC-UKET data, we examine a multi-class case outcome prediction task in the UKET. Human predictions are collected to establish a performance reference for model comparison. Empirical results from baseline models indicate that finetuned transformer models outperform zero-shot and few-shot LLMs on the UKET prediction task. The performance of zero-shot LLMs can be enhanced by integrating task-related information into few-shot examples. We hope that the CLC-UKET dataset, along with human annotations and empirical findings, can serve as a valuable benchmark for employment-related dispute resolution."}
{"Title": "Information Extraction for Planning Court Cases", "Abstract": "Legal documents are often long and unstructured, making them challenging and time-consuming to apprehend. An automatic system that can identify relevant entities and labels within legal documents, would significantly reduce the legal research time. We developed a system to streamline legal case analysis from planning courts by extracting key information from XML files using Named Entity Recognition (NER) and multi-label classification models to convert them into structured form. This research contributes three novel datasets for the Planning Court cases: a NER dataset, a multi-label dataset fully annotated by humans, and newly re-annotated multi-label datasets partially annotated using LLMs. We experimented with various general-purpose and legal domain-specific models with different maximum sequence lengths. It was noted that incorporating paragraph position information improved the performance of models for the multi-label classification task. Our research highlighted the importance of domain-specific models, with LegalRoBERTa and LexLM demonstrating the best performance."}
{"Title": "Automated Anonymization of Parole Hearing Transcripts", "Abstract": "Responsible natural language processing is more and more concerned with preventing the violation of personal rights that language technology can entail (CITATION). In this paper we illustrate the case of parole hearings in California, the verbatim transcripts of which are made available to the general public upon a request sent to the California Board of Parole Hearings. The parole hearing setting is highly sensitive: inmates face a board of legal representatives who discuss highly personal matters not only about the inmates themselves but also about victims and their relatives, such as spouses and children. Participants have no choice in contributing to the data collection process, since the disclosure of the transcripts is mandated by law. As researchers who are interested in understanding and modeling the communication in these hierarchy-driven settings, we face an ethical dilemma: publishing raw data as is for the community would compromise the privacy of all individuals affected, but manually cleaning the data requires a substantive effort. In this paper we present an automated anonymization process which reliably removes and pseudonymizes sensitive data in verbatim transcripts, while at the same time preserving the structure and content of the data. Our results show that the process exhibits little to no leakage of sensitive information when applied to more than 300 hearing transcripts."}
{"Title": "Towards an Automated Pointwise Evaluation Metric for Generated Long-Form Legal Summaries", "Abstract": "Long-form abstractive summarization is a task that has particular importance in the legal domain. Automated evaluation metrics are important for the development of text generation models, but existing research on the evaluation of generated summaries has focused mainly on short summaries. We introduce an automated evaluation methodology for generated long-form legal summaries, which involves breaking each summary into individual points, comparing the points in a human-written and machine-generated summary, and calculating a recall and precision score for the latter. The method is designed to be particularly suited for the complexities of legal text, and is also fully interpretable. We also create and release a small meta-dataset for the benchmarking of evaluation methods, focusing on long-form legal summarization. Our evaluation metric corresponds better with human evaluation compared to existing metrics which were not developed for legal data."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Contract Negotiations with LLM-Based Legal Document Comparison", "Abstract": "We present a large language model (LLM) based approach for comparing legal contracts with their corresponding template documents. Legal professionals use commonly observed deviations between templates and contracts to help with contract negotiations, and also to refine the template documents. Our comparison approach, based on the well-studied natural language inference (NLI) task, first splits a template into key concepts and then uses LLMs to decide if the concepts are entailed by the contract document. We also repeat this procedure in the opposite direction - contract clauses are tested for entailment against the template clause to see if they contain additional information. The non-entailed concepts are labelled, organized and filtered by frequency, and placed into a clause library, which is used to suggest changes to the template documents. We first show that our LLM-based approach outperforms all previous work on a publicly available dataset designed for NLI in the legal domain. We then apply it to a private real-world legal dataset, achieve an accuracy of 96.46{\\%}. Our approach is the first in the literature to produce a natural language comparison between legal contracts and their template documents."}
{"Title": "Attributed Question Answering for Preconditions in the Dutch Law", "Abstract": "In this paper, we address the problem of answering questions about preconditions in the law, e.g. {``}When can the court terminate the guardianship of a natural person?{''}. When answering legal questions, it is important to attribute the relevant part of the law; we therefore not only generate answers but also references to law articles. We implement a retrieval augmented generation (RAG) pipeline for long-form answers based on the Dutch law, using several state-of-the-art retrievers and generators. For evaluating our pipeline, we create a dataset containing legal QA pairs with attributions. Our experiments show promising results on our extended version for the automatic evaluation metrics from the Automatic LLMs{'} Citation Evaluation (ALCE) Framework and the G-EVAL Framework. Our findings indicate that RAG has significant potential in complex, citation-heavy domains like law, as it helps laymen understand legal preconditions and rights by generating high-quality answers with accurate attributions."}
{"Title": "Algorithm for Automatic Legislative Text Consolidation", "Abstract": "This study introduces a method for automating the consolidation process in a legal context, a time-consuming task traditionally performed by legal professionals. We present a generative approach that processes legislative texts to automatically apply amendments. Our method employs light quantized generative model, finetuned with LoRA, to generate accurate and reliable amended texts. To the authors knowledge, this is the first time generative models are used on legislative text consolidation. Our dataset is publicly available on HuggingFace. Experimental results demonstrate a significant improvement in efficiency, offering faster updates to legal documents. A full automated pipeline of legislative text consolidation can be done in a few hours, with a success rate of more than 63{\\%} on a difficult bill."}
{"Title": "Measuring the Groundedness of Legal Question-Answering Systems", "Abstract": "In high-stakes domains like legal question-answering, the accuracy and trustworthiness of generative AI systems are of paramount importance. This work presents a comprehensive benchmark of various methods to assess the groundedness of AI-generated responses, aiming to significantly enhance their reliability. Our experiments include similarity-based metrics and natural language inference models to evaluate whether responses are well-founded in the given contexts. We also explore different prompting strategies for large language models to improve the detection of ungrounded responses. We validated the effectiveness of these methods using a newly created grounding classification corpus, designed specifically for legal queries and corresponding responses from retrieval-augmented prompting, focusing on their alignment with source material. Our results indicate potential in groundedness classification of generated responses, with the best method achieving a macro-F1 score of 0.8. Additionally, we evaluated the methods in terms of their latency to determine their suitability for real-world applications, as this step typically follows the generation process. This capability is essential for processes that may trigger additional manual verification or automated response regeneration. In summary, this study demonstrates the potential of various detection methods to improve the trustworthiness of generative AI in legal settings."}
{"Title": "Transductive Legal Judgment Prediction Combining BERT Embeddings with Delaunay-Based GNNs", "Abstract": "This paper presents a novel approach to legal judgment prediction by combining BERT embeddings with a Delaunay-based Graph Neural Network (GNN). Unlike inductive methods that classify legal documents independently, our transductive approach models the entire document set as a graph, capturing both contextual and relational information. This method significantly improves classification accuracy by enabling effective label propagation across connected documents. Evaluated on the Swiss-Judgment-Prediction (SJP) dataset, our model outperforms established baselines, including larger models with cross-lingual training and data augmentation techniques, while maintaining efficiency with minimal computational overhead."}
{"Title": "Cross Examine: An Ensemble-based approach to leverage Large Language Models for Legal Text Analytics", "Abstract": "Legal documents are complex in nature, describing a course of argumentative reasoning that is followed to settle a case. Churning through large volumes of legal documents is a daily requirement for a large number of professionals who need access to the information embedded in them. Natural language processing methods that help in document summarization with key information components, insight extraction and question answering play a crucial role in legal text processing. Most of the existing document analysis systems use supervised machine learning, which require large volumes of annotated training data for every different application and are expensive to build. In this paper we propose a legal text analytics pipeline using Large Language Models (LLM), which can work with little or no training data. For document summarization, we propose an iterative pipeline using retrieval augmented generation to ensure that the generated text remains contextually relevant. For question answering, we propose a novel ontology-driven ensemble approach similar to cross-examination that exploits questioning and verification principles. A knowledge graph, created with the extracted information, stores the key entities and relationships reflecting the repository content structure. A new dataset is created with Indian court documents related to bail applications for cases filed under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 an Indian law to protect children from sexual abuse and offences. Analysis of insights extracted from the answers reveal patterns of crime and social conditions leading to those crimes, which are important inputs for social scientists as well as legal system."}
{"Title": "LLMs to the Rescue: Explaining DSA Statements of Reason with Platform's Terms of Services", "Abstract": "The Digital Services Act (DSA) requires online platforms in the EU to provide {``}statements of reason{''} (SoRs) when restricting user content, but their effectiveness in ensuring transparency is still debated due to vague and complex terms of service (ToS). This paper explores the use of NLP techniques, specifically multi-agent systems based on large language models (LLMs), to clarify SoRs by linking them to relevant ToS sections. Analysing SoRs from platforms like Booking.com, Reddit, and LinkedIn, our findings show that LLMs can enhance the interpretability of content moderation decisions, improving user understanding and engagement with DSA requirements."}
{"Title": "BLT: Can Large Language Models Handle Basic Legal Text?", "Abstract": "We find that the best publicly available LLMs like GPT-4 and Claude currently perform poorly on basic legal text handling. This motivates the creation of a benchmark consisting of examples that lawyers and paralegals would expect LLMs to handle zero-shot, such as looking up the text at a line of a witness deposition or at a subsection of a contract. LLMs{'} poor performance on this benchmark casts into doubt their reliability as-is for legal practice. However, fine-tuning on our training set brings even a small model to near-perfect performance. This benchmark will be useful for fine-tuning LLMs for downstream legal tasks, as well as for tracking LLMs{'} reliability as-is for basic legal tasks."}
{"Title": "Multi-Property Multi-Label Documents Metadata Recommendation based on Encoder Embeddings", "Abstract": "The task of document classification, particularly multi-label classification, presents a significant challenge due to the complexity of assigning multiple relevant labels to each document. This complexity is further amplified in multi-property multi-label classification tasks, where documents must be categorized across various sets of labels. In this research, we introduce an innovative encoder embedding-driven approach to multi-property multi-label document classification that leverages semantic-text similarity and the reuse of pre-existing annotated data to enhance the efficiency and accuracy of the document annotation process. Our method requires only a single model for text similarity, eliminating the need for multiple property-specific classifiers and thereby reducing computational demands and simplifying deployment. We evaluate our approach through a prototype deployed for daily operations, which demonstrates superior performance over existing classification systems. Our contributions include improved accuracy without additional training, increased efficiency, and demonstrated effectiveness in practical applications. The results of our study indicate the potential of our approach to be applied across various domains requiring multi-property multi-label document classification, offering a scalable and adaptable solution for metadata annotation tasks."}
{"Title": "Comparative Study of Explainability Methods for Legal Outcome Prediction", "Abstract": "This paper investigates explainability in Natural Legal Language Processing (NLLP). We study the task of legal outcome prediction of the European Court of Human Rights cases in a ternary classification setup, where a language model is fine-tuned to predict whether an article has been claimed and violated (positive outcome), claimed but not violated (negative outcome) or not claimed at all (null outcome). Specifically, we experiment with three popular NLP explainability methods. Correlating the attribution scores of input-level methods (Integrated Gradients and Contrastive Explanations) with rationales from court rulings, we show that the correlations are very weak, with absolute values of Spearman and Kendall correlation coefficients ranging between 0.003 and 0.094. Furthermore, we use a concept-level interpretability method (Concept Erasure) with human expert annotations of legal reasoning, to show that obscuring legal concepts from the model representation has an insignificant effect on model performance (at most a decline of 0.26 F1). Therefore, our results indicate that automated legal outcome prediction models are not reliably grounded in legal reasoning."}
{"Title": "Bonafide at LegalLens 2024 Shared Task: Using Lightweight DeBERTa Based Encoder For Legal Violation Detection and Resolution", "Abstract": "In this work, we present two systems{---}Named Entity Resolution (NER) and Natural Language Inference (NLI){---}for detecting legal violations within unstructured textual data and for associating these violations with potentially affected individuals, respectively. Both these systems are lightweight DeBERTa based encoders that outperform the LLM baselines. The proposed NER system achieved an F1 score of 60.01{\\%} on Subtask A of the LegalLens challenge, which focuses on identifying violations. The proposed NLI system achieved an F1 score of 84.73{\\%} on Subtask B of the LegalLens challenge, which focuses on resolving these violations by matching them with pre-existing legal complaints of class action cases. Our NER system ranked sixth and NLI system ranked fifth on the LegalLens leaderboard. We release the trained models and inference scripts."}
{"Title": "LAR-ECHR: A New Legal Argument Reasoning Task and Dataset for Cases of the European Court of Human Rights", "Abstract": "We present Legal Argument Reasoning (LAR), a novel task designed to evaluate the legal reasoning capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). The task requires selecting the correct next statement (from multiple choice options) in a chain of legal arguments from court proceedings, given the facts of the case. We constructed a dataset (LAR-ECHR) for this task using cases from the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR). We evaluated seven general-purpose LLMs on LAR-ECHR and found that (a) the ranking of the models is aligned with that of LegalBench, an established US-based legal reasoning benchmark, even though LAR-ECHR is based on EU law, (b) LAR-ECHR distinguishes top models more clearly, compared to LegalBench, (c) even the best model (GPT-4o) obtains 75.8{\\%} accuracy on LAR-ECHR, indicating significant potential for further model improvement. The process followed to construct LAR-ECHR can be replicated with cases from other legal systems."}
{"Title": "Gaps or Hallucinations? Scrutinizing Machine-Generated Legal Analysis for Fine-grained Text Evaluations", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) show promise as a writing aid for professionals performing legal analyses. However, LLMs can often hallucinate in this setting, in ways difficult to recognize by non-professionals and existing text evaluation metrics. In this work, we pose the question: when can machine-generated legal analysis be evaluated as acceptable? We introduce the neutral notion of gaps {--} as opposed to hallucinations in a strict erroneous sense {--} to refer to the difference between human-written and machine-generated legal analysis. Gaps do not always equate to invalid generation. Working with legal experts, we consider the CLERC generation task proposed in Hou et al. (2024b), leading to a taxonomy, a fine-grained detector for predicting gap categories, and an annotated dataset for automatic evaluation. Our best detector achieves 67{\\%} F1 score and 80{\\%} precision on the test set. Employing this detector as an automated metric on legal analysis generated by SOTA LLMs, we find around 80{\\%} contain hallucinations of different kinds."}
{"Title": "Classify First, and Then Extract: Prompt Chaining Technique for Information Extraction", "Abstract": "This work presents a new task-aware prompt design and example retrieval approach for information extraction (IE) using a prompt chaining technique. Our approach divides IE tasks into two steps: (1) text classification to understand what information (e.g., entity or event types) is contained in the underlying text and (2) information extraction for the identified types. Initially, we use a large language model (LLM) in a few-shot setting to classify the contained information. The classification output is used to select the relevant prompt and retrieve the examples relevant to the input text. Finally, we ask a LLM to do the information extraction with the generated prompt. By evaluating our approach on legal IE tasks with two different LLMs, we demonstrate that the prompt chaining technique improves the LLM{'}s overall performance in a few-shot setting when compared to the baseline in which examples from all possible classes are included in the prompt. Our approach can be used in a low-resource setting as it does not require a large amount of training data. Also, it can be easily adapted to many different IE tasks by simply adjusting the prompts. Lastly, it provides a cost benefit by reducing the number of tokens in the prompt."}
{"Title": "Augmenting Legal Decision Support Systems with LLM-based NLI for Analyzing Social Media Evidence", "Abstract": "This paper presents our system description and error analysis of our entry for NLLP 2024 shared task on Legal Natural Language Inference (L-NLI). The task required classifying these relationships as entailed, contradicted, or neutral, indicating any association between the review and the complaint. Our system emerged as the winning submission, significantly outperforming other entries with a substantial margin and demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach in legal text analysis. We provide a detailed analysis of the strengths and limitations of each model and approach tested, along with a thorough error analysis and suggestions for future improvements. This paper aims to contribute to the growing field of legal NLP by offering insights into advanced techniques for natural language inference in legal contexts, making it accessible to both experts and newcomers in the field."}
{"Title": "Empowering Air Travelers: A Chatbot for Canadian Air Passenger Rights", "Abstract": "The Canadian air travel sector has seen a significant increase in flight delays, cancellations, and other issues concerning passenger rights. Recognizing this demand, we present a chatbot to assist passengers and educate them about their rights. Our system breaks a complex user input into simple queries which are used to retrieve information from a collection of documents detailing air travel regulations. The most relevant passages from these documents are presented along with links to the original documents and the generated queries, enabling users to dissect and leverage the information for their unique circumstances. The system successfully overcomes two predominant challenges: understanding complex user inputs, and delivering accurate answers, free of hallucinations, that passengers can rely on for making informed decisions. A user study comparing the chatbot to a Google search demonstrated the chatbot{'}s usefulness and ease of use. Beyond the primary goal of providing accurate and timely information to air passengers regarding their rights, we hope that this system will also enable further research exploring the tradeoff between the user-friendly conversational interface of chatbots and the accuracy of retrieval systems."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Legal Violation Identification with LLMs and Deep Learning Techniques: Achievements in the LegalLens 2024 Competition", "Abstract": "LegalLens is a competition organized to encourage advancements in automatically detecting legal violations. This paper presents our solutions for two tasks Legal Named Entity Recognition (L-NER) and Legal Natural Language Inference (L-NLI). Our approach involves fine-tuning BERT-based models, designing methods based on data characteristics, and a novel prompting template for data augmentation using LLMs. As a result, we secured first place in L-NER and third place in L-NLI among thirty-six participants. We also perform error analysis to provide valuable insights and pave the way for future enhancements in legal NLP. Our implementation is available at https://github.com/lxbach10012004/legal-lens/tree/main"}
{"Title": "LegalLens 2024 Shared Task: Masala-chai Submission", "Abstract": "In this paper, we present the masala-chai team{'}s participation in the LegalLens 2024 shared task and detail our approach to predicting legal entities and performing natural language inference (NLI) in the legal domain. We experimented with various transformer-based models, including BERT, RoBERTa, Llama 3.1, and GPT-4o. Our results show that state-of-the-art models like GPT-4o underperformed in NER and NLI tasks, even when using advanced techniques such as bootstrapping and prompt optimization. The best performance in NER (accuracy: 0.806, F1 macro: 0.701) was achieved with a fine-tuned RoBERTa model, while the highest NLI results (accuracy: 0.825, F1 macro: 0.833) came from a fine-tuned Llama 3.1 8B model. Notably, RoBERTa, despite having significantly fewer parameters than Llama 3.1 8B, delivered comparable results. We discuss key findings and insights from our experiments and provide our results and code for reproducibility and further analysis at https://github.com/rosequ/masala-chai"}
{"Title": "Semantists at LegalLens-2024: Data-efficient Training of LLM's for Legal Violation Identification", "Abstract": "In this paper, we describe our system for LegalLens-2024 Shared Task on automatically identifying legal violations from unstructured text sources. We participate in Subtask B, called Legal Natural Language Inference (L-NLI), that aims to predict the relationship between a given premise summarizing a class action complaint and a hypothesis from an online media text, indicating any association between the review and the complaint. This task is challenging as it provides only limited labelled data. In our work, we adopt LLM based methods and explore various data-efficient learning approaches for maximizing performance. In the end, our best model employed an ensemble of LLM{'}s fine-tuned on the task-specific data, and achieved a Macro F1 score of 78.5{\\%} on test data, and ranked 2nd among all teams submissions."}
{"Title": "LegalLens Shared Task 2024: Legal Violation Identification in Unstructured Text", "Abstract": "This paper presents the results of the LegalLens Shared Task, focusing on detecting legal violations within text in the wild across two sub-tasks: LegalLens-NER for identifying legal violation entities and LegalLens-NLI for associating these violations with relevant legal contexts and affected individuals. Using an enhanced LegalLens dataset covering labor, privacy, and consumer protection domains, 38 teams participated in the task. Our analysis reveals that while a mix of approaches was used, the top-performing teams in both tasks consistently relied on fine-tuning pre-trained language models, outperforming legal-specific models and few-shot methods. The top-performing team achieved a 7.11{\\%} improvement in NER over the baseline, while NLI saw a more marginal improvement of 5.7{\\%}. Despite these gains, the complexity of legal texts leaves room for further advancements."}
{"Title": "DeBERTa Beats Behemoths: A Comparative Analysis of Fine-Tuning, Prompting, and PEFT Approaches on LegalLensNER", "Abstract": "This paper summarizes the participation of our team (Flawless Lawgic) in the legal named entity recognition (L-NER) task at LegalLens 2024: Detecting Legal Violations. Given possible unstructured texts (e.g., online media texts), we aim to identify legal violations by extracting legal entities such as {``}violation{''}, {``}violation by{''}, {``}violation on{''}, and {``}law{''}. This system-description paper discusses our approaches to address the task, empirically highlighting the performances of fine-tuning models from the Transformers family (e.g., RoBERTa and DeBERTa) against open-sourced LLMs (e.g., Llama, Mistral) with different tuning settings (e.g., LoRA, Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) and prompting strategies). Our best results, with a weighted F1 of 0.705 on the test set, show a 30 percentage points increase in F1 compared to the baseline and rank 2 on the leaderboard, leaving a marginal gap of only 0.4 percentage points lower than the top solution. Our solutions are available at github.com/honghanhh/lner."}
{"Title": "LexSumm and LexT5: Benchmarking and Modeling Legal Summarization Tasks in English", "Abstract": "In the evolving NLP landscape, benchmarks serve as yardsticks for gauging progress. However, existing Legal NLP benchmarks only focus on predictive tasks, overlooking generative tasks. This work curates LexSumm, a benchmark designed for evaluating legal summarization tasks in English. It comprises eight English legal summarization datasets, from diverse jurisdictions, such as the US, UK, EU and India. Additionally, we release LexT5, legal oriented sequence-to-sequence model, addressing the limitation of the existing BERT-style encoder-only models in the legal domain. We assess its capabilities through zero-shot probing on LegalLAMA and fine-tuning on LexSumm. Our analysis reveals abstraction and faithfulness errors even in summaries generated by zero-shot LLMs, indicating opportunities for further improvements. LexSumm benchmark and LexT5 model are available at https://github.com/TUMLegalTech/LexSumm-LexT5."}
{"Title": "Towards Supporting Legal Argumentation with NLP: Is More Data Really All You Need?", "Abstract": "Modeling legal reasoning and argumentation justifying decisions in cases has always been central to AI {\\&} Law, yet contemporary developments in legal NLP have increasingly focused on statistically classifying legal conclusions from text. While conceptually {``}simpler{'}, these approaches often fall short in providing usable justifications connecting to appropriate legal concepts. This paper reviews both traditional symbolic works in AI {\\&} Law and recent advances in legal NLP, and distills possibilities of integrating expert-informed knowledge to strike a balance between scalability and explanation in symbolic vs. data-driven approaches. We identify open challenges and discuss the potential of modern NLP models and methods that integrate conceptual legal knowledge."}
{"Title": "Text Length and the Function of Intentionality: A Case Study of Contrastive Subreddits", "Abstract": "Text length is of central concern in natural language processing (NLP) tasks, yet it is very much under-researched. In this paper, we use social media data, specifically Reddit, to explore the function of text length and intentionality by contrasting subreddits of the same topic where one is considered more serious/professional/academic and the other more relaxed/beginner/layperson. We hypothesize that word choices are more deliberate and intentional in the more in-depth and professional subreddits with texts subsequently becoming longer as a function of this intentionality. We argue that this has deep implications for many applied NLP tasks such as emotion and sentiment analysis, fake news and disinformation detection, and other modeling tasks focused on social media and similar platforms where users interact with each other via the medium of text."}
{"Title": "Tracing the Genealogies of Ideas with Sentence Embeddings", "Abstract": "Detecting intellectual influence in unstructured text is an important problem for a wide range of fields, including intellectual history, social science, and bibliometrics. A wide range of previous studies in computational social science and digital humanities have attempted to resolve this through a range of dictionary, embedding, and language model based methods. I introduce an approach which leverages a sentence embedding index to efficiently search for similar ideas in a large historical corpus. This method remains robust in conditions of high OCR error found in real mass digitized historical corpora that disrupt previous published methods, while also capturing paraphrase and indirect influence. I evaluate this method on a large corpus of 250,000 nonfiction texts from the 19th century, and find that discovered influence is in line with history of science literature. By expanding the scope of our search for influence and the origins of ideas beyond traditional structured corpora and canonical works and figures, we can get a more nuanced perspective on influence and idea dissemination that can encompass epistemically marginalized groups."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Computational Representations of Character: An Austen Character Similarity Benchmark", "Abstract": "Several systems have been developed to extract information about characters to aid computational analysis of English literature. We propose character similarity grouping as a holistic evaluation task for these pipelines. We present AustenAlike, a benchmark suite of character similarities in Jane Austen{'}s novels. Our benchmark draws on three notions of character similarity: a structurally defined notion of similarity; a socially defined notion of similarity; and an expert defined set extracted from literary criticism. We use AustenAlike to evaluate character features extracted using two pipelines, BookNLP and FanfictionNLP. We build character representations from four kinds of features and compare them to the three AustenAlike benchmarks and to GPT-4 similarity rankings. We find that though computational representations capture some broad similarities based on shared social and narrative roles, the expert pairings in our third benchmark are challenging for all systems, highlighting the subtler aspects of similarity noted by human readers."}
{"Title": "Investigating Expert-in-the-Loop LLM Discourse Patterns for Ancient Intertextual Analysis", "Abstract": "This study explores the potential of large language models (LLMs) for identifying and examining intertextual relationships within biblical, koine Greek texts. By evaluating the performance of LLMs on various intertextuality scenarios the study demonstrates that these models can detect direct quotations, allusions, and echoes between texts. The LLM{'}s ability to generate novel intertextual observations and connections highlights its potential to uncover new insights. However, the model also struggles with long query passages and the inclusion of false intertextual dependences, emphasizing the importance of expert evaluation. The expert-in-the-loop methodology presented offers a scalable approach for intertextual research into the complex web of intertextuality within and beyond the biblical corpus."}
{"Title": "Extracting Relations from Ecclesiastical Cultural Heritage Texts", "Abstract": "Motivated by the increasing volume of data and the necessity of getting valuable insights, this research describes the process of extracting entities and relations from Italian texts in the context of ecclesiastical cultural heritage data. Named Entity Recognition (NER) and Relation Extraction (RE) are paramount tasks in Natural Language Processing. This paper presents a traditional methodology based on a two-step procedure: firstly, a custom model for Named Entity Recognition extracts entities from data, and then, a multi-input neural network model is trained to perform Relation Classification as a multi-label classification problem. Data are provided by IDS{\\&}Unitelm (technological partner of the IT Services and National Office for Ecclesiastical Cultural Heritage and Religious Buildings of CEI, the Italian Episcopal Conference) and concerns biographical texts of 9,982 entities of type person, which can be accessed by the online portal BeWeb. This approach aims to enhance the organization and accessibility of ecclesiastical cultural heritage data, offering deeper insights into historical biographical records."}
{"Title": "Constructing a Sentiment-Annotated Corpus of Austrian Historical Newspapers: Challenges, Tools, and Annotator Experience", "Abstract": "This study presents the development of a sentiment-annotated corpus of historical newspaper texts in Austrian German, addressing a gap in annotated corpora for Natural Language Processing in the field of Digital Humanities. Three annotators categorised 1005 sentences from two 19th-century periodicals into four sentiment categories: positive, negative, neutral, and mixed. The annotators, Masters and PhD students in Linguistics and Digital Humanities, are considered semi-experts and have received substantial training during this annotation study. Three tools were used and compared in the annotation process: Google Sheets, Google Forms and Doccano, and resulted in a gold standard corpus. The analysis revealed a fair to moderate inter-rater agreement (Fleiss{'} kappa = 0.405) and an average percentage agreement of 45.7{\\%} for full consensus and 92.5{\\%} for majority vote. As majority vote is needed for the creation of a gold standard corpus, these results are considered sufficient, and the annotations reliable. The study also introduced comprehensive guidelines for sentiment annotation, which were essential to overcome the challenges posed by historical language and context. The annotators{'} experience was assessed through a combination of standardised usability tests (NASA-TLX and UEQ-S) and a detailed custom-made user experience questionnaire, which provided qualitative insights into the difficulties and usability of the tools used. The questionnaire is an additional resource that can be used to assess usability and user experience assessments in future annotation studies. The findings demonstrate the effectiveness of semi-expert annotators and dedicated tools in producing reliable annotations and provide valuable resources, including the annotated corpus, guidelines, and a user experience questionnaire, for future sentiment analysis and annotation of Austrian historical texts. The sentiment-annotated corpus will be used as the gold standard for fine-tuning and evaluating machine learning models for sentiment analysis of Austrian historical newspapers with the topic of migration and minorities in a subsequent study."}
{"Title": "It is a Truth Individually Acknowledged: Cross-references On Demand", "Abstract": "Cross-references link source passages of text to other passages that elucidate the source passage in some way and can deepen human understanding. Despite their usefulness, however, good cross-references are hard to find, and extensive sets of cross-references only exist for the few most highly studied books such as the Bible, for which scholars have been collecting cross-references for hundreds of years. Therefore, we propose a new task: generate cross-references for user-selected text on demand. We define a metric, coverage, to evaluate task performance. We adapt several models to generate cross references, including an Anchor Words topic model, SBERT SentenceTransformers, and ChatGPT, and evaluate their coverage in both English and German on existing cross-reference datasets. While ChatGPT outperforms other models on these datasets, this is likely due to data contamination. We hand-evaluate performance on the well-known works of Jane Austen and a less-known science fiction series Sons of the Starfarers by Joe Vasicek, finding that ChatGPT does not perform as well on these works; sentence embeddings perform best. We experiment with newer LLMs and large context windows, and suggest that future work should focus on deploying cross-references on-demand with readers to determine their effectiveness in the wild."}
{"Title": "Extracting position titles from unstructured historical job advertisements", "Abstract": "This paper explores the automated extraction of job titles from unstructured historical job advertisements, using a corpus of digitized German-language newspapers from 1850-1950. The study addresses the challenges of working with unstructured, OCR-processed historical data, contrasting with contemporary approaches that often use structured, digitally-born datasets when dealing with this text type. We compare four extraction methods: a dictionary-based approach, a rule-based approach, a named entity recognition (NER) mode, and a text-generation method. The NER approach, trained on manually annotated data, achieved the highest F1 score (0.944 using transformers model trained on GPU, 0.884 model trained on CPU), demonstrating its flexibility and ability to correctly identify job titles. The text-generation approach performs similarly (0.920). However, the rule-based (0.69) and dictionary-based (0.632) methods reach relatively high F1 Scores as well, while offering the advantage of not requiring extensive labeling of training data. The results highlight the complexities of extracting meaningful job titles from historical texts, with implications for further research into labor market trends and occupational history."}
{"Title": "Language Resources From Prominent Born-Digital Humanities Texts are Still Needed in the Age of LLMs", "Abstract": "The digital humanities (DH) community fundamentally embraces the use of computerized tools for the study and creation of knowledge related to language, history, culture, and human values, in which natural language plays a prominent role. Many successful DH tools rely heavily on Natural Language Processing methods, and several efforts exist within the DH community to promote the use of newer and better tools. Nevertheless, most NLP research is driven by web corpora that are noticeably different from texts commonly found in DH artifacts, which tend to use richer language and refer to rarer entities. Thus, the near-human performance achieved by state-of-the-art NLP tools on web texts might not be achievable on DH texts. We introduce a dataset carefully created by computer scientists and digital humanists intended to serve as a reference point for the development and evaluation of NLP tools. The dataset is a subset of a born-digital textbase resulting from a prominent and ongoing experiment in digital literary history, containing thousands of multi-sentence excerpts that are suited for information extraction tasks. We fully describe the dataset and show that its language is demonstrably different than the corpora normally used in training language resources in the NLP community."}
{"Title": "NLP for Digital Humanities: Processing Chronological Text Corpora", "Abstract": "The paper focuses on the integration of Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques to analyze extensive chronological text corpora. This research underscores the synergy between humanistic inquiry and computational methods, especially in the processing and analysis of sequential textual data known as lexical series. A reference workflow for chronological corpus analysis is introduced, outlining the methodologies applicable to the ChronoPress corpus, a data set that encompasses 22 years of Polish press from 1945 to 1966. The study showcases the potential of this approach in uncovering cultural and historical patterns through the analysis of lexical series. The findings highlight both the challenges and opportunities present in leveraging lexical series analysis within Digital Humanities, emphasizing the necessity for advanced data filtering and anomaly detection algorithms to effectively manage the vast and intricate datasets characteristic of this field."}
{"Title": "A Multi-task Framework with Enhanced Hierarchical Attention for Sentiment Analysis on Classical Chinese Poetry: Utilizing Information from Short Lines", "Abstract": "Classical Chinese poetry has a long history, dating back to the 11th century BC. By investigating the sentiment expressed in the poetry, we can gain more insights in the emotional life and history development in ancient Chinese culture. To help improve the sentiment analysis performance in the field of classical Chinese poetry, we propose to utilize the unique information from the individual short lines that compose the poem, and introduce a multi-task framework with hierarchical attention enhanced with short line sentiment labels. Specifically, the multi-task framework comprises sentiment analysis for both the overall poem and the short lines, while the hierarchical attention consists of word- and sentence-level attention, with the latter enhanced with additional information from short line sentiments. Our experimental results showcase that our approach leveraging more fine-grained information from short lines outperforms the state-of-the-art, achieving an accuracy score of 72.88{\\%} and an F1-macro score of 71.05{\\%}."}
{"Title": "Exploring Similarity Measures and Intertextuality in Vedic Sanskrit Literature", "Abstract": "This paper examines semantic similarity and intertextuality in selected texts from the Vedic Sanskrit corpus, specifically the Maitr{\\=a}ya\u00e1\u00b9\u0087{\\=\\i} Sa\u00e1\u00b9\u0083hit{\\=a} (MS) and K{\\=a}\u00e1\u00b9\u00adhaka-Sa\u00e1\u00b9\u0083hit{\\=a} (KS). Three computational methods are employed: Word2Vec for word embeddings, stylo package for stylometric analysis, and TRACER for text reuse detection. By comparing various sections of the texts at different granularities, patterns of similarity and structural alignment are uncovered, providing insights into textual relationships and chronology. Word embeddings capture semantic similarities, while stylometric analysis reveals clusters and components that differentiate the texts. TRACER identifies parallel passages, indicating probable instances of text reuse. The computational analysis corroborates previous philological studies, suggesting a shared period of composition between MS.1.9 and MS.1.7. This research highlights the potential of computational methods in studying ancient Sanskrit literature, complementing traditional approaches. The agreement among the methods strengthens the validity of the findings, and the visualizations offer a nuanced understanding of textual connections. The study demonstrates that smaller chunk sizes are more effective for detecting intertextual parallels, showcasing the power of these techniques in unraveling the complexities of ancient texts."}
{"Title": "Historical Ink: 19th Century Latin American Spanish Newspaper Corpus with LLM OCR Correction", "Abstract": "This paper presents two significant contributions: First, it introduces a novel dataset of 19th-century Latin American newspaper texts, addressing a critical gap in specialized corpora for historical and linguistic analysis in this region. Second, it develops a flexible framework that utilizes a Large Language Model for OCR error correction and linguistic surface form detection in digitized corpora. This semi-automated framework is adaptable to various contexts and datasets and is applied to the newly created dataset."}
{"Title": "Canonical Status and Literary Influence: A Comparative Study of Danish Novels from the Modern Breakthrough (1870\u20131900)", "Abstract": "We examine the relationship between the canonization of Danish novels and their textual innovation and influence, taking the Danish Modern Breakthrough era (1870{--}1900) as a case study. We evaluate whether canonical novels introduced a significant textual novelty in their time, and explore their influence on the overall literary trend of the period. By analyzing the positions of canonical versus non-canonical novels in semantic space, we seek to better understand the link between a novel{'}s canonical status and its literary impact. Additionally, we examine the overall diversification of Modern Breakthrough novels during this significant period of rising literary readership. We find that canonical novels stand out from both the historical novel genre and non-canonical novels of the period. Our findings on diversification within and across groups indicate that the novels now regarded as canonical served as literary trendsetters of their time."}
{"Title": "Deciphering psycho-social effects of Eating Disorder : Analysis of Reddit Posts using Large Language Model(LLM)s and Topic Modeling", "Abstract": "Eating disorders are a global health concern as they manifest in increasing numbers across all sections of society. Social network platforms have emerged as a dependable source of information about the disease, its effect, and its prevalence among different sections. This work lays the foundation for large-scale analysis of social media data using large language models (LLMs). We show that using LLMs can drastically reduce the time and resource requirements for garnering insights from large data repositories. With respect to ED, this work focuses on understanding its psychological impacts on both patients and those who live in their proximity. Social scientists can utilize the proposed approach to design more focused studies with better representative groups."}
{"Title": "Topic-Aware Causal Intervention for Counterfactual Detection", "Abstract": "Counterfactual statements, which describe events that did not or cannot take place, are beneficial to numerous NLP applications. Hence, we consider the problem of counterfactual detection (CFD) and seek to enhance the CFD models. Previous models are reliant on clue phrases to predict counterfactuality, so they suffer from significant performance drop when clue phrase hints do not exist during testing. Moreover, these models tend to predict non-counterfactuals over counterfactuals. To address these issues, we propose to integrate neural topic model into the CFD model to capture the global semantics of the input statement. We continue to causally intervene the hidden representations of the CFD model to balance the effect of the class labels. Extensive experiments show that our approach outperforms previous state-of-the-art CFD and bias-resolving methods in both the CFD and other bias-sensitive tasks."}
{"Title": "UD for German Poetry", "Abstract": "This article deals with the syntactic analysis of German-language poetry from different centuries. We use Universal Dependencies (UD) as our syntactic framework. We discuss particular challenges of the poems in terms of tokenization, sentence boundary recognition and special syntactic constructions. Our annotated corpus currently consists of 20 poems with a total of 2,162 tokens, which originate from the PoeTree.de corpus. We present some statistics on our annotations and also evaluate the automatic UD annotation from PoeTree.de using our annotations."}
{"Title": "Moly\u00e9: A Corpus-based Approach to Language Contact in Colonial France", "Abstract": "Whether or not several Creole languages which developed during the early modern period can be considered genetic descendants of European languages has been the subject of intense debate. This is in large part due to the absence of evidence of intermediate forms. This work introduces a new open corpus, the Moly{\\'e} corpus, which combines stereotypical representations of three kinds of language variation in Europe with early attestations of French-based Creole languages across a period of 400 years. It is intended to facilitate future research on the continuity between contact situations in Europe and Creolophone (former) colonies."}
{"Title": "Vector Poetics: Parallel Couplet Detection in Classical Chinese Poetry", "Abstract": "This paper explores computational approaches for detecting parallelism in classical Chinese poetry, a rhetorical device where two verses mirror each other in syntax, meaning, tone, and rhythm. We experiment with five classification methods: (1) verb position matching, (2) integrated semantic, syntactic, and word-segmentation analysis, (3) difference-based character embeddings, (4) structured examples (inner/outer couplets), and (5) GPT-guided classification. We use a manually annotated dataset, containing 6,125 pentasyllabic couplets, to evaluate performance. The results indicate that parallelism detection poses a significant challenge even for powerful LLMs such as GPT-4o, with the highest F1 score below 0.72. Nevertheless, each method contributes valuable insights into the art of parallelism in Chinese poetry, suggesting a new understanding of parallelism as a verbal expression of principal components in a culturally defined vector space."}
{"Title": "Adapting Measures of Literality for Use with Historical Language Data", "Abstract": "This paper concerns the adaptation of two existing computational measures relating to the estimation of the literality of expressions to enable their use in scenarios where data is scarce, as is usually the case with historical language data. Being able to determine an expression{'}s literality via statistical means could support a range of linguistic annotation tasks, such as those relating to metaphor, metonymy, and idiomatic expressions, however making this judgment is especially difficult for modern annotators of historical and ancient texts. Therefore we re-implement these measures using smaller corpora and count-based vectors more suited to these amounts of training data. The adapted measures are evaluated against an existing data set of particle verbs annotated with degrees of literality. The results were inconclusive, yielding low correlations between 0.05 and 0.10 (Spearman{'}s \u00cf\u0081). Further work is needed to determine which measures and types of data correspond to which aspects of literality."}
{"Title": "Improving Latin Dependency Parsing by Combining Treebanks and Predictions", "Abstract": "This paper introduces new models designed to improve the morpho-syntactic parsing of the five largest Latin treebanks in the Universal Dependencies (UD) framework. First, using two state-of-the-art parsers, Trankit and Stanza, along with our custom UD tagger, we train new models on the five treebanks both individually and by combining them into novel merged datasets. We also test the models on the CIRCSE test set. In an additional experiment, we evaluate whether this set can be accurately tagged using the novel LASLA corpus (https://github.com/CIRCSE/LASLA). Second, we aim to improve the results by combining the predictions of different models through an atomic morphological feature voting system. The results of our two main experiments demonstrate significant improvements, particularly for the smaller treebanks, with LAS scores increasing by 16.10 and 11.85{\\%}-points for UDante and Perseus, respectively (Gamba and Zeman, 2023a). Additionally, the voting system for morphological features (FEATS) brings improvements, especially for the smaller Latin treebanks: Perseus 3.15{\\%} and CIRCSE 2.47{\\%}-points. Tagging the CIRCSE set with our custom model using the LASLA model improves POS 6.71 and FEATS 11.04{\\%}-points respectively, compared to our best-performing UD PROIEL model. Our results show that larger datasets and ensemble predictions can significantly improve performance."}
{"Title": "From N-grams to Pre-trained Multilingual Models For Language Identification", "Abstract": "In this paper, we investigate the use of N-gram models and Large Pre-trained Multilingual models for Language Identification (LID) across 11 South African languages. For N-gram models, this study shows that effective data size selection remains crucial for establishing effective frequency distributions of the target languages, that efficiently model each language, thus, improving language ranking. For pre-trained multilingual models, we conduct extensive experiments covering a diverse set of massively pre-trained multilingual (PLM) models {--} mBERT, RemBERT, XLM-r, and Afri-centric multilingual models {--} AfriBERTa, Afro-XLMr, AfroLM, and Serengeti. We further compare these models with available large-scale Language Identification tools: Compact Language Detector v3 (CLD V3), AfroLID, GlotLID, and OpenLID to highlight the importance of focused-based LID. From these, we show that Serengeti is a superior model across models: N-grams to Transformers on average. Moreover, we propose a lightweight BERT-based LID model (za{\\_}BERT{\\_}lid) trained with NHCLT + Vukzenzele corpus, which performs on par with our best-performing Afri-centric models."}
{"Title": "Visualising Changes in Semantic Neighbourhoods of English Noun Compounds over Time", "Abstract": "This paper provides a framework and tool set for computing and visualising dynamic, time- specific semantic neighbourhoods of English noun-noun compounds and their constituents over time. Our framework not only identifies salient vector-space dimensions and neighbours in notoriously sparse data: we specifically bring together changes in meaning aspects and degrees of (non-)compositionality."}
{"Title": "SEFLAG: Systematic Evaluation Framework for NLP Models and Datasets in Latin and Ancient Greek", "Abstract": "Literary scholars of Latin and Ancient Greek increasingly use natural language processing for their work, but many models and datasets are hard to use due to a lack of sustainable research data management. This paper introduces the Systematic Evaluation Framework for natural language processing models and datasets in Latin and Ancient Greek (SEFLAG), which consistently assesses language resources using common criteria, such as specific evaluation metrics, metadata and risk analysis. The framework, a work in progress in its initial phase, currently covers lemmatization and named entity recognition for both languages, with plans for adding dependency parsing and other tasks. For increased transparency and sustainability, a thorough documentation is included as well as an integration into the HuggingFace ecosystem. The combination of these efforts is designed to support researchers in their search for suitable models."}
{"Title": "A Two-Model Approach for Humour Style Recognition", "Abstract": "Humour, a fundamental aspect of human communication, manifests itself in various styles that significantly impact social interactions and mental health. Recognising different humour styles poses challenges due to the lack of established datasets and machine learning (ML) models. To address this gap, we present a new text dataset for humour style recognition, comprising 1463 instances across four styles (self-enhancing, self-deprecating, affiliative, and aggressive) and non-humorous text, with lengths ranging from 4 to 229 words. Our research employs various computational methods, including classic machine learning classifiers, text embedding models, and DistilBERT, to establish baseline performance. Additionally, we propose a two-model approach to enhance humour style recognition, particularly in distinguishing between affiliative and aggressive styles. Our method demonstrates an 11.61{\\%} improvement in f1-score for affiliative humour classification, with consistent improvements in the 14 models tested. Our findings contribute to the computational analysis of humour in text, offering new tools for studying humour in literature, social media, and other textual sources."}
{"Title": "N-gram-Based Preprocessing for Sandhi Reversion in Vedic Sanskrit", "Abstract": "This study aims to address the challenges posed by sandhi in Vedic Sanskrit, a phenomenon that complicates the computational analysis of Sanskrit texts. By focusing on sandhi reversion, the research seeks to improve the accuracy of processing Vedic Sanskrit, an older layer of the language. Sandhi, a phonological phenomenon, poses challenges for text processing in Sanskrit due to the fusion of word boundaries or the sound change around word boundaries. In this research, we developed a transformer-based model with a novel n-gram preprocessing strategy to improve the accuracy of sandhi reversion for Vedic. We created character-based n-gram texts of varying lengths (n = 2, 3, 4, 5, 6) from the Rigveda, the oldest Vedic text, and trained models on these texts to perform machine translation from post-sandhi to pre-sandhi forms. In the results, we found that the model trained with 5-gram text achieved the highest accuracy. This success is likely due to the 5-gram{'}s ability to capture the maximum phonemic context in which Vedic sandhi occurs, making it more effective for the task. These findings suggest that by leveraging the inherent characteristics of phonological changes in language, even simple preprocessing methods like n-gram segmentation can significantly improve the accuracy of complex linguistic tasks."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Swedish Parliamentary Data: Annotation, Accessibility, and Application in Digital Humanities", "Abstract": "The Swedish bicameral parliament data presents a valuable textual resource that is of interest for many researches and scholars. The parliamentary texts offer many avenues for research including the study of how various affairs were run by governments over time. The Parliament proceedings are available in textual format, but in their original form, they are noisy and unstructured and thus hard to explore and investigate. In this paper, we report the transformation of the raw bicameral parliament data (1867-1970) into a structured lexical resource annotated with various word and document level attributes. The annotated data is then made searchable through two modern corpus infrastructure components which provide a wide array of corpus exploration, visualization, and comparison options. To demonstrate the practical utility of this resource, we present a case study examining the transformation of the concept of {`}market{'} over time from a tangible physical entity to an abstract idea."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Open-Source LLMs in Low-Resource Languages: Insights from Latvian High School Exams", "Abstract": "The latest large language models (LLM) have significantly advanced natural language processing (NLP) capabilities across various tasks. However, their performance in low-resource languages, such as Latvian with 1.5 million native speakers, remains substantially underexplored due to both limited training data and the absence of comprehensive evaluation benchmarks. This study addresses this gap by conducting a systematic assessment of prominent open-source LLMs on natural language understanding (NLU) and natural language generation (NLG) tasks in Latvian. We utilize standardized high school centralized graduation exams as a benchmark dataset, offering relatable and diverse evaluation scenarios that encompass multiple-choice questions and complex text analysis tasks. Our experimental setup involves testing models from the leading LLM families, including Llama, Qwen, Gemma, and Mistral, with OpenAI{'}s GPT-4 serving as a performance reference. The results reveal that certain open-source models demonstrate competitive performance in NLU tasks, narrowing the gap with GPT-4. However, all models exhibit notable deficiencies in NLG tasks, specifically in generating coherent and contextually appropriate text analyses, highlighting persistent challenges in NLG for low-resource languages. These findings contribute to efforts to develop robust multilingual benchmarks and improve LLM performance in diverse linguistic contexts."}
{"Title": "Computational Methods for the Analysis of Complementizer Variability in Language and Literature: The Case of Hebrew \u201cshe-\u201d and \u201cki\u201d", "Abstract": "We demonstrate a computational method for analyzing complementizer variability within language and literature, focusing on Hebrew as a test case. The primary complementizers in Hebrew are {``}she-{''} and {``}ki{''}. We first run a large-scale corpus analysis to determine the relative preference for one or the other of these complementizers given the preceding verb. On top of this foundation, we leverage clustering methods to measure the degree of interchangeability between the complementizers for each verb. The resulting tables, which provide this information for all common complement-taking verbs in Hebrew, are a first-of-its-kind lexical resource which we provide to the NLP community. Upon this foundation, we demonstrate a computational method to analyze literary works for unusual and unexpected complementizer usages deserving of literary analysis."}
{"Title": "From Discrete to Continuous Classes: A Situational Analysis of Multilingual Web Registers with LLM Annotations", "Abstract": "In corpus linguistics, registers{--}language varieties suited to different contexts{--}have traditionally been defined by their situations of use, yet recent studies reveal significant situational variation within registers. Previous quantitative studies, however, have been limited to English, leaving this variation in other languages largely unexplored. To address this gap, we apply a quantitative situational analysis to a large multilingual web register corpus, using large language models (LLMs) to annotate texts in English, Finnish, French, Swedish, and Turkish for 23 situational parameters. Using clustering techniques, we identify six situational text types, such as {``}Advice{''}, {``}Opinion{''} and {``}Marketing{''}, each characterized by distinct situational features. We explore the relationship between these text types and traditional register categories, finding partial alignment, though no register maps perfectly onto a single cluster. These results support the quantitative approach to situational analysis and are consistent with earlier findings for English. Cross-linguistic comparisons show that language accounts for only a small part of situational variation within registers, suggesting registers are situationally similar across languages. This study demonstrates the utility of LLMs in multilingual register analysis and deepens our understanding of situational variation within registers."}
{"Title": "Testing and Adapting the Representational Abilities of Large Language Models on Folktales in Low-Resource Languages", "Abstract": "Folktales are a rich resource of knowledge about the society and culture of a civilisation. Digital folklore research aims to use automated techniques to better understand these folktales, and it relies on abstract representations of the textual data. Although a number of large language models (LLMs) claim to be able to represent low-resource langauges such as Irish and Gaelic, we present two classification tasks to explore how useful these representations are, and three adaptations to improve the performance of these models. We find that adapting the models to work with longer sequences, and continuing pre-training on the domain of folktales improves classification performance, although these findings are tempered by the impressive performance of a baseline SVM with non-contextual features."}
{"Title": "Examining Language Modeling Assumptions Using an Annotated Literary Dialect Corpus", "Abstract": "We present a dataset of 19th century American literary orthovariant tokens with a novel layer of human-annotated dialect group tags designed to serve as the basis for computational experiments exploring literarily meaningful orthographic variation. We perform an initial broad set of experiments over this dataset using both token (BERT) and character (CANINE)-level contextual language models. We find indications that the {``}dialect effect{''} produced by intentional orthographic variation employs multiple linguistic channels, and that these channels are able to be surfaced to varied degrees given particular language modelling assumptions. Specifically, we find evidence showing that choice of tokenization scheme meaningfully impact the type of orthographic information a model is able to surface."}
{"Title": "Evaluating Language Models in Location Referring Expression Extraction from Early Modern and Contemporary Japanese Texts", "Abstract": "Automatic extraction of geographic information, including Location Referring Expressions (LREs), can aid humanities research in analyzing large collections of historical texts. In this study, to investigate how accurate pretrained Transformer language models (LMs) can extract LREs from historical texts, we evaluate two representative types of LMs, namely, masked language model and causal language model, using early modern and contemporary Japanese datasets. Our experimental results demonstrated the potential of contemporary LMs for historical texts, but also suggest the need for further model enhancement, such as pretraining on historical texts."}
{"Title": "Evaluating LLM Performance in Character Analysis: A Study of Artificial Beings in Recent Korean Science Fiction", "Abstract": "Literary works present diverse and complex character behaviors, often implicit or intentionally obscured, making character analysis an inherently challenging task. This study explores LLMs{'} capability to identify and interpret behaviors of artificial beings in 11 award-winning contemporary Korean science fiction short stories. Focusing on artificial beings as a distinct class of characters, rather than on conventional human characters, adds to the multi-layered complexity of analysis. We compared two LLMs, Claude 3.5 Sonnet and GPT-4o, with human experts using a custom eight-label system and a unique agreement metric developed to capture the cognitive intricacies of literary interpretation. Human inter-annotator agreement was around 50{\\%}, confirming the subjectivity of literary comprehension. LLMs differed from humans in selected text spans but demonstrated high agreement in label assignment for correctly identified spans. LLMs notably excelled at discerning {`}actions{'} as semantic units rather than isolated grammatical components. This study reaffirms literary interpretation{'}s multifaceted nature while expanding the boundaries of NLP, contributing to discussions about AI{'}s capacity to understand and interpret creative works."}
{"Title": "Text vs. Transcription: A Study of Differences Between the Writing and Speeches of U.S. Presidents", "Abstract": "Even after many years of research, answering the question of the differences between spoken and written text remains open. This paper aims to study syntactic features that can serve as distinguishing factors. To do so, we focus on the transcribed speeches and written books of United States presidents. We conducted two experiments to analyze high-level syntactic features. In the first experiment, we examine these features while controlling for the effect of sentence length. In the second experiment, we compare the high-level syntactic features with low-level ones. The results indicate that adding high-level syntactic features enhances model performance, particularly in longer sentences. Moreover, the importance of the prepositional phrases in a sentence increases with sentence length. We also find that these longer sentences with more prepositional phrases are more likely to appear in speeches than in written books by U.S. presidents."}
{"Title": "Mitigating Biases to Embrace Diversity: A Comprehensive Annotation Benchmark for Toxic Language", "Abstract": "This study introduces a prescriptive annotation benchmark grounded in humanities research to ensure consistent, unbiased labeling of offensive language, particularly for casual and non-mainstream language uses. We contribute two newly annotated datasets that achieve higher inter-annotator agreement between human and language model (LLM) annotations compared to original datasets based on descriptive instructions. Our experiments show that LLMs can serve as effective alternatives when professional annotators are unavailable. Moreover, smaller models fine-tuned on multi-source LLM-annotated data outperform models trained on larger, single-source human-annotated datasets. These findings highlight the value of structured guidelines in reducing subjective variability, maintaining performance with limited data, and embracing language diversity. Content Warning: This article only analyzes offensive language for academic purposes. Discretion is advised."}
{"Title": "Classification of Buddhist Verses: The Efficacy and Limitations of Transformer-Based Models", "Abstract": "This study assesses the ability of machine learning to classify verses from Buddhist texts into two categories: Therigatha and Theragatha, attributed to female and male authors, respectively. It highlights the difficulties in data preprocessing and the use of Transformer-based models on Devanagari script due to limited vocabulary, demonstrating that simple statistical models can be equally effective. The research suggests areas for future exploration, provides the dataset for further study, and acknowledges existing limitations and challenges."}
{"Title": "Intersecting Register and Genre: Understanding the Contents of Web-Crawled Corpora", "Abstract": "Web-scale corpora present valuable research opportunities but often lack detailed metadata, making them challenging to use in linguistics and social sciences. This study tackles this problem by exploring automatic methods to classify web corpora into specific categories, focusing on text registers such as Interactive Discussion and literary genres such as Politics and Social Sciences. We train two machine learning models to classify documents from the large web-crawled OSCAR dataset: a register classifier using the multilingual, manually annotated CORE corpus, and a genre classifier using a dataset based on Kindle US{\\&}UK. Fine-tuned from XLM-R Large, the register and genre classifiers achieved F1-scores of 0.74 and 0.70, respectively. Our analysis includes evaluating the distribution of the predicted text classes and examining the intersection of genre-register pairs using topic modelling. The results show expected combinations between certain registers and genres, such as the Lyrical register often aligning with the Literature {\\&} Fiction genre. However, most registers, such as Interactive Discussion, are divided across multiple genres, like Engineering {\\&} Transportation and Politics {\\&} Social Sciences, depending on the discussion topic. This enriched metadata provides valuable insights and supports new ways of studying digital cultural heritage."}
{"Title": "Sui Generis: Large Language Models for Authorship Attribution and Verification in Latin", "Abstract": "This paper evaluates the performance of Large Language Models (LLMs) in authorship attribu- tion and authorship verification tasks for Latin texts of the Patristic Era. The study showcases that LLMs can be robust in zero-shot author- ship verification even on short texts without sophisticated feature engineering. Yet, the mod- els can also be easily {``}mislead{''} by semantics. The experiments also demonstrate that steering the model{'}s authorship analysis and decision- making is challenging, unlike what is reported in the studies dealing with high-resource mod- ern languages. Although LLMs prove to be able to beat, under certain circumstances, the traditional baselines, obtaining a nuanced and truly explainable decision requires at best a lot of experimentation."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Neural Machine Translation for Ainu-Japanese: A Comprehensive Study on the Impact of Domain and Dialect Integration", "Abstract": "Neural Machine Translation (NMT) has revolutionized language translation, yet significant challenges persist for low-resource languages, particularly those with high dialectal variation and limited standardization. This comprehensive study focuses on the Ainu language, a critically endangered indigenous language of northern Japan, which epitomizes these challenges. We address the limitations of previous research through two primary strategies: (1) extensive corpus expansion encompassing diverse domains and dialects, and (2) development of innovative methods to incorporate dialect and domain information directly into the translation process. Our approach yielded substantial improvements in translation quality, with BLEU scores increasing from 32.90 to 39.06 (+6.16) for Japanese \u00e2\u0086\u0092 Ainu and from 10.45 to 31.83 (+21.38) for Ainu \u00e2\u0086\u0092 Japanese. Through rigorous experimentation and analysis, we demonstrate the crucial importance of integrating linguistic variation information in NMT systems for languages characterized by high diversity and limited resources. Our findings have broad implications for improving machine translation for other low-resource languages, potentially advancing preservation and revitalization efforts for endangered languages worldwide."}
{"Title": "Exploring Large Language Models for Qualitative Data Analysis", "Abstract": "This paper explores the potential of Large Language Models (LLMs) to enhance qualitative data analysis (QDA) workflows within the open-source QDA platform developed at our university. We identify several opportunities within a typical QDA workflow where AI assistance can boost researcher productivity and translate these opportunities into corresponding NLP tasks: document classification, information extraction, span classification, and text generation. A benchmark tailored to these QDA activities is constructed, utilizing English and German datasets that align with relevant use cases. Focusing on efficiency and accessibility, we evaluate the performance of three prominent open-source LLMs - Llama 3.1, Gemma 2, and Mistral NeMo - on this benchmark. Our findings reveal the promise of LLM integration for streamlining QDA workflows, particularly for English-language projects. Consequently, we have implemented the LLM Assistant as an opt-in feature within our platform and report the implementation details. With this, we hope to further democratize access to AI capabilities for qualitative data analysis."}
{"Title": "Cross-Dialectal Transfer and Zero-Shot Learning for Armenian Varieties: A Comparative Analysis of RNNs, Transformers and LLMs", "Abstract": "This paper evaluates lemmatization, POS-tagging, and morphological analysis for four Armenian varieties: Classical Armenian, Modern Eastern Armenian, Modern Western Armenian, and the under-documented Getashen dialect. It compares traditional RNN models, multilingual models like mDeBERTa, and large language models (ChatGPT) using supervised, transfer learning, and zero/few-shot learning approaches. The study finds that RNN models are particularly strong in POS-tagging, while large language models demonstrate high adaptability, especially in handling previously unseen dialect variations. The research highlights the value of cross-variational and in-context learning for enhancing NLP performance in low-resource languages, offering crucial insights into model transferability and supporting the preservation of endangered dialects."}
{"Title": "Increasing the Difficulty of Automatically Generated Questions via Reinforcement Learning with Synthetic Preference for Cost-Effective Cultural Heritage Dataset Generation", "Abstract": "As the cultural heritage sector increasingly adopts technologies like Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) to provide more personalised search experiences and enable conversations with collections data, the demand for specialised evaluation datasets has grown. While end-to-end system testing is essential, it{'}s equally important to assess individual components. We target the final, answering task, which is well-suited to Machine Reading Comprehension (MRC). Although existing MRC datasets address general domains, they lack the specificity needed for cultural heritage information. Unfortunately, the manual creation of such datasets is prohibitively expensive for most heritage institutions. This paper presents a cost-effective approach for generating domain-specific MRC datasets with increased difficulty using Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF) from synthetic preference data. Our method leverages the performance of existing question-answering models on a subset of SQuAD to create a difficulty metric, assuming that more challenging questions are answered correctly less frequently. This research contributes: (1) A methodology for increasing question difficulty using PPO and synthetic data; (2) Empirical evidence of the method{'}s effectiveness, including human evaluation; (3) An in-depth error analysis and study of emergent phenomena; and (4) An open-source codebase and set of three llama-2-chat adapters for reproducibility and adaptation."}
{"Title": "Assessing Large Language Models in Translating Coptic and Ancient Greek Ostraca", "Abstract": "The advent of Large Language Models (LLMs) substantially raised the quality and lowered the cost of Machine Translation (MT). Can scholars working with ancient languages draw benefits from this new technology? More specifically, can current MT facilitate multilingual digital papyrology? To answer this question, we evaluate 9 LLMs in the task of MT with 4 Coptic and 4 Ancient Greek ostraca into English using 6 NLP metrics. We argue that some models have already reached a performance apt to assist human experts. As can be expected from the difference in training corpus size, all models seem to perform better with Ancient Greek than with Coptic, where hallucinations are markedly more common. In the Coptic texts, the specialised Coptic Translator (CT) competes closely with Claude 3 Opus for the rank of most promising tool, while Claude 3 Opus and GPT-4o compete for the same position in the Ancient Greek texts. We argue that MT now substantially heightens the incentive to work on multilingual corpora. This could have a positive and long-lasting effect on Classics and Egyptology and help reduce the historical bias in translation availability. In closing, we reflect upon the need to meet AI-generated translations with an adequate critical stance."}
{"Title": "The Social Lives of Literary Characters: Combining citizen science and language models to understand narrative social networks", "Abstract": "Characters and their interactions are central to the fabric of narratives, playing a crucial role in developing readers{'} social cognition. In this paper, we introduce a novel annotation framework that distinguishes between five types of character interactions, including bilateral and unilateral classifications. Leveraging the crowd-sourcing framework of citizen science, we collect a large dataset of manual annotations (N=13,395). Using this data, we explore how genre and audience factors influence social network structures in a sample of contemporary books. Our findings demonstrate that fictional narratives tend to favor more embodied interactions and exhibit denser and less modular social networks. Our work not only enhances the understanding of narrative social networks but also showcases the potential of integrating citizen science with NLP methodologies for large-scale narrative analysis."}
{"Title": "Multi-word expressions in biomedical abstracts and their plain English adaptations", "Abstract": "This study analyzes the use of multi-word expressions (MWEs), prefabricated sequences of words (e.g. in this case, this means that, healthcare service, follow up) in biomedical abstracts and their plain language adaptations. While English academic writing became highly specialized and complex from the late 19th century onwards, recent decades have seen a rising demand for a lay-friendly language in scientific content, especially in the health domain, to bridge a communication gap between experts and laypersons. Based on previous research showing that MWEs are easier to process than non-formulaic word sequences of comparable length, we hypothesize that they can potentially be used to create a more reader-friendly language. Our preliminary results suggest some significant differences between complex and plain abstracts when it comes to the usage patterns and informational load of MWEs."}
{"Title": "Assessing the Performance of ChatGPT-4, Fine-tuned BERT and Traditional ML Models on Moroccan Arabic Sentiment Analysis", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive capabilities in various natural language processing tasks across different languages. However, their performance in low-resource languages and dialects, such as Moroccan Arabic (MA), requires further investigation. This study evaluates the performance of ChatGPT-4, different fine-tuned BERT models, FastText as text representation, and traditional machine learning models on MA sentiment analysis. Experiments were done on two open source MA datasets: an X(Twitter) Moroccan Arabic corpus (MAC) and a Moroccan Arabic YouTube corpus (MYC) datasets to assess their capabilities on sentiment text classification. We compare the performance of fully fine-tuned and pre-trained Arabic BERT-based models with ChatGPT-4 in zero-shot settings."}
{"Title": "Analyzing Pok\u00e9mon and Mario Streamers' Twitch Chat with LLM-based User Embeddings", "Abstract": "We present a novel digital humanities method for representing our Twitch chatters as user embeddings created by a large language model (LLM). We cluster these embeddings automatically using affinity propagation and further narrow this clustering down through manual analysis. We analyze the chat of one stream by each Twitch streamer: SmallAnt, DougDoug and PointCrow. Our findings suggest that each streamer has their own type of chatters, however two categories emerge for all of the streamers: supportive viewers and emoji and reaction senders. Repetitive message spammers is a shared chatter category for two of the streamers."}
{"Title": "Corpus Development Based on Conflict Structures in the Security Field and LLM Bias Verification", "Abstract": "This study investigates the presence of biases in large language models (LLMs), specifically focusing on how these models process and reflect inter-state conflict structures. Previous research has often lacked the standardized datasets necessary for a thorough and consistent evaluation of biases in this context. Without such datasets, it is challenging to accurately assess the impact of these biases on critical applications. To address this gap, we developed a diverse and high-quality corpus using a four-phase process. This process included generating texts based on international conflict-related keywords, enhancing emotional diversity to capture a broad spectrum of sentiments, validating the coherence and connections between texts, and conducting final quality assurance through human reviewers who are experts in natural language processing. Our analysis, conducted using this newly developed corpus, revealed subtle but significant negative biases in LLMs, particularly towards Eastern bloc countries such as Russia and China. These biases have the potential to influence decision-making processes in fields like national security and international relations, where accurate, unbiased information is crucial. The findings underscore the importance of evaluating and mitigating these biases to ensure the reliability and fairness of LLMs when applied in sensitive areas."}
{"Title": "Generating Interpretations of Policy Announcements", "Abstract": "Recent advances in language modeling have focused on (potentially multiple-choice) question answering, open-ended generation, or math and coding problems. We look at a more nuanced task: the interpretation of statements of political actors. To this end, we present a dataset of policy announcements and corresponding annotated interpretations, on the topic of US foreign policy relations with Russia in the years 1993 up to 2016. We analyze the performance of finetuning standard sequence-to-sequence models of varying sizes on predicting the annotated interpretations and compare them to few-shot prompted large language models. We find that 1) model size is not the main factor for success on this task, 2) finetuning smaller models provides both quantitatively and qualitatively superior results to in-context learning with large language models, but 3) large language models pick up the annotation format and approximate the category distribution with just a few in-context examples."}
{"Title": "Order Up! Micromanaging Inconsistencies in ChatGPT-4o Text Analyses", "Abstract": "Large language model (LLM) applications have taken the world by storm in the past two years, and the academic sphere has not been an exception. One common, cumbersome task for researchers to attempt to automatise has been text annotation and, to an extent, analysis. Popular LLMs such as ChatGPT have been examined as a research assistant and as an analysis tool, and several discrepancies regarding both transparency and the generative content have been uncovered. Our research approaches the usability and trustworthiness of ChatGPT for text analysis from the point of view of an {``}out-of-the-box{''} zero-shot or few-shot setting, focusing on how the context window and mixed text types affect the analyses generated. Results from our testing indicate that both the types of the texts and the ordering of different kinds of texts do affect the ChatGPT analysis, but also that the context-building is less likely to cause analysis deterioration when analysing similar texts. Though some of these issues are at the core of how LLMs function, many of these caveats can be addressed by transparent research planning."}
{"Title": "CIPHE: A Framework for Document Cluster Interpretation and Precision from Human Exploration", "Abstract": "Document clustering models serve unique application purposes, which turns model quality into a property that depends on the needs of the individual investigator. We propose a framework, Cluster Interpretation and Precision from Human Exploration (CIPHE), for collecting and quantifying human interpretations of cluster samples. CIPHE tasks survey participants to explore actual document texts from cluster samples and records their perceptions. It also includes a novel inclusion task that is used to calculate the cluster precision in an indirect manner. A case study on news clusters shows that CIPHE reveals which clusters have multiple interpretation angles, aiding the investigator in their exploration."}
{"Title": "Empowering Teachers with Usability-Oriented LLM-Based Tools for Digital Pedagogy", "Abstract": "We present our work on two LLM-based tools that utilize artificial intelligence and creative technology to improve education. The first tool is a Moodle AI plugin, which helps teachers manage their course content more efficiently using AI-driven analysis, content generation, and an interactive chatbot. The second one is a curriculum planning tool that provides insight into the sustainability, work-life relevance, and workload of each course. Both of these tools have the common goal of integrating sustainable development goals (UN SDGs) into teaching, among other things. We will describe the usability-focused and user-centric approach we have embraced when developing these tools."}
{"Title": "What is the social benefit of hate speech detection research? A Systematic Review", "Abstract": "While NLP research into hate speech detection has grown exponentially in the last three decades, there has been minimal uptake or engagement from policy makers and non-profit organisations. We argue the absence of ethical frameworks have contributed to this rift between current practice and best practice. By adopting appropriate ethical frameworks, NLP researchers may enable the social impact potential of hate speech research. This position paper is informed by reviewing forty-eight hate speech detection systems associated with thirty-seven publications from different venues."}
{"Title": "Multilingual Fact-Checking using LLMs", "Abstract": "Due to the recent rise in digital misinformation, there has been great interest shown in using LLMs for fact-checking and claim verification. In this paper, we answer the question: Do LLMs know multilingual facts and can they use this knowledge for effective fact-checking? To this end, we create a benchmark by filtering multilingual claims from the X-fact dataset and evaluating the multilingual fact-checking capabilities of five LLMs across five diverse languages: Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Turkish, and Tamil on our benchmark. We employ three different prompting techniques: Zero-Shot, English Chain-of-Thought, and Cross-Lingual Prompting, using both greedy and self-consistency decoding. We extensively analyze our results and find that GPT-4o achieves the highest accuracy, but zero-shot prompting with self-consistency was the most effective overall. We also show that techniques like Chain-of-Thought and Cross-Lingual Prompting, which are designed to improve reasoning abilities, do not necessarily improve the fact-checking abilities of LLMs. Interestingly, we find a strong negative correlation between model accuracy and the amount of internet content for a given language. This suggests that LLMs are better at fact-checking from knowledge in low-resource languages. We hope that this study will encourage more work on multilingual fact-checking using LLMs."}
{"Title": "Transferring Fairness using Multi-Task Learning with Limited Demographic Information", "Abstract": "Training supervised machine learning systems with a fairness loss can improve prediction fairness across different demographic groups. However, doing so requires demographic annotations for training data, without which we cannot produce debiased classifiers for most tasks. Drawing inspiration from transfer learning methods, we investigate whether we can utilize demographic data from a related task to improve the fairness of a target task. We adapt a single-task fairness loss to a multi-task setting to exploit demographic labels from a related task in debiasing a target task, and demonstrate that demographic fairness objectives transfer fairness within a multi-task framework. Additionally, we show that this approach enables intersectional fairness by transferring between two datasets with different single-axis demographics. We explore different data domains to show how our loss can improve fairness domains and tasks."}
{"Title": "Selecting Shots for Demographic Fairness in Few-Shot Learning with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Recently, work in NLP has shifted to few-shot (in-context) learning, with large language models (LLMs) performing well across a range of tasks. However, while fairness evaluations have become a standard for supervised methods, little is known about the fairness of LLMs as prediction systems. Further, common standard methods for fairness involve access to model weights or are applied during finetuning, which are not applicable in few-shot learning. Do LLMs exhibit prediction biases when used for standard NLP tasks?In this work, we analyze the effect of shots, which directly affect the performance of models, on the fairness of LLMs as NLP classification systems. We consider how different shot selection strategies, both existing and new demographically sensitive methods, affect model fairness across three standard fairness datasets. We find that overall the performance of LLMs is not indicative of their fairness, and there is not a single method that fits all scenarios. In light of these facts, we discuss how future work can include LLM fairness in evaluations."}
{"Title": "Covert Bias: The Severity of Social Views' Unalignment in Language Models Towards Implicit and Explicit Opinion", "Abstract": "While various approaches have recently been studied for bias identification, little is known about how implicit language that does not explicitly convey a viewpoint affects bias amplification in large language models. To examine the severity of bias toward a view, we evaluated the performance of two downstream tasks where the implicit and explicit knowledge of social groups were used. First, we present a stress test evaluation by using a biased model in edge cases of excessive bias scenarios. Then, we evaluate how LLMs calibrate linguistically in response to both implicit and explicit opinions when they are aligned with conflicting viewpoints. Our findings reveal a discrepancy in LLM performance in identifying implicit and explicit opinions, with a general tendency of bias toward explicit opinions of opposing stances. Moreover, the bias-aligned models generate more cautious responses using uncertainty phrases compared to the unaligned (zero-shot) base models. The direct, incautious responses of the unaligned models suggest a need for further refinement of decisiveness by incorporating uncertainty markers to enhance their reliability, especially on socially nuanced topics with high subjectivity."}
{"Title": "PG-Story: Taxonomy, Dataset, and Evaluation for Ensuring Child-Safe Content for Story Generation", "Abstract": "Creating children{'}s stories through text generation is a creative task that requires stories to be both entertaining and suitable for young audiences. However, since current story generation systems often rely on pre-trained language models fine-tuned with limited story data, they may not always prioritize child-friendliness. This can lead to the unintended generation of stories containing problematic elements such as violence, profanity, and biases. Regrettably, despite the significance of these concerns, there is a lack of clear guidelines and benchmark datasets for ensuring content safety for children. In this paper, we introduce a taxonomy specifically tailored to assess content safety in text, with a strong emphasis on children{'}s well-being. We present PG-Story, a dataset that includes detailed annotations for both sentence-level and discourse-level safety. We demonstrate the potential of identifying unsafe content through self-diagnosis and employing controllable generation techniques during the decoding phase to minimize unsafe elements in generated stories."}
{"Title": "Towards Explainable Multi-Label Text Classification: A Multi-Task Rationalisation Framework for Identifying Indicators of Forced Labour", "Abstract": "The importance of rationales, or natural language explanations, lies in their capacity to bridge the gap between machine predictions and human understanding, by providing human-readable insights into why a text classifier makes specific decisions. This paper presents a novel multi-task rationalisation approach tailored to enhancing the explainability of multi-label text classifiers to identify indicators of forced labour. Our framework integrates a rationale extraction task with the classification objective and allows the inclusion of human explanations during training. We conduct extensive experiments using transformer-based models on a dataset consisting of 2,800 news articles, each annotated with labels and human-generated explanations. Our findings reveal a statistically significant difference between the best-performing architecture leveraging human rationales during training and variants using only labels. Specifically, the supervised model demonstrates a 10{\\%} improvement in predictive performance measured by the weighted F1 score, a 15{\\%} increase in the agreement between human and machine-generated rationales, and a 4{\\%} improvement in the generated rationales{'} comprehensiveness. These results hold promising implications for addressing complex human rights issues with greater transparency and accountability using advanced NLP techniques."}
{"Title": "All Models are Wrong, But Some are Deadly: Inconsistencies in Emotion Detection in Suicide-related Tweets", "Abstract": "Recent work in psychology has shown that people who experience mental health challenges are more likely to express their thoughts, emotions, and feelings on social media than share it with a clinical professional. Distinguishing suicide-related content, such as suicide mentioned in a humorous context, from genuine expressions of suicidal ideation is essential to better understanding context and risk. In this paper, we give a first insight and analysis into the differences between emotion labels annotated by humans and labels predicted by three fine-tuned language models (LMs) for suicide-related content. We find that (i) there is little agreement between LMs and humans for emotion labels of suicide-related Tweets and (ii) individual LMs predict similar emotion labels for all suicide-related categories. Our findings lead us to question the credibility and usefulness of such methods in high-risk scenarios such as suicide ideation detection."}
{"Title": "Efficient Aspect-Based Summarization of Climate Change Reports with Small Language Models", "Abstract": "The use of Natural Language Processing (NLP) for helping decision-makers with Climate Change action has recently been highlighted as a use case aligning with a broader drive towards NLP technologies for social good. In this context, Aspect-Based Summarization (ABS) systems that extract and summarize relevant information are particularly useful as they provide stakeholders with a convenient way of finding relevant information in expert-curated reports. In this work, we release a new dataset for ABS of Climate Change reports and we employ different Large Language Models (LLMs) and so-called Small Language Models (SLMs) to tackle this problem in an unsupervised way. Considering the problem at hand, we also show how SLMs are not significantly worse for the problem while leading to reduced carbon footprint; we do so by applying for the first time an existing framework considering both energy efficiency and task performance to the evaluation of zero-shot generative models for ABS. Overall, our results show that modern language models, both big and small, can effectively tackle ABS for Climate Change reports but more research is needed when we frame the problem as a Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) problem and our work and dataset will help foster efforts in this direction."}
{"Title": "An NLP Case Study on Predicting the Before and After of the Ukraine\u2013Russia and Hamas\u2013Israel Conflicts", "Abstract": "We propose a method to predict toxicity and other textual attributes through the use of natural language processing (NLP) techniques for two recent events: the Ukraine-Russia and Hamas-Israel conflicts. This article provides a basis for exploration in future conflicts with hopes to mitigate risk through the analysis of social media before and after a conflict begins. Our work compiles several datasets from Twitter and Reddit for both conflicts in a before and after separation with an aim of predicting a future state of social media for avoidance. More specifically, we show that: (1) there is a noticeable difference in social media discussion leading up to and following a conflict and (2) social media discourse on platforms like Twitter and Reddit is useful in identifying future conflicts before they arise. Our results show that through the use of advanced NLP techniques (both supervised and unsupervised) toxicity and other attributes about language before and after a conflict is predictable with a low error of nearly 1.2 percent for both conflicts."}
{"Title": "Exploring the Jungle of Bias: Political Bias Attribution in Language Models via Dependency Analysis", "Abstract": "The rapid advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs) has sparked intense debate regarding the prevalence of bias in these models and its mitigation. Yet, as exemplified by both results on debiasing methods in the literature and reports of alignment-related defects from the wider community, bias remains a poorly understood topic despite its practical relevance. To enhance the understanding of the internal causes of bias, we analyse LLM bias through the lens of causal fairness analysis, which enables us to both comprehend the origins of bias and reason about its downstream consequences and mitigation. To operationalize this framework, we propose a prompt-based method for the extraction of confounding and mediating attributes which contribute to the LLM decision process. By applying Activity Dependency Networks (ADNs), we then analyse how these attributes influence an LLM{'}s decision process. We apply our method to LLM ratings of argument quality in political debates. We find that the observed disparate treatment can at least in part be attributed to confounding and mitigating attributes and model misalignment, and discuss the consequences of our findings for human-AI alignment and bias mitigation."}
{"Title": "AgriLLM:Harnessing Transformers for Framer Queries", "Abstract": "Agriculture, vital for global sustenance, necessitates innovative solutions due to a lack of organized domain experts, particularly in developing countries where many farmers are impoverished and cannot afford expert consulting. Initiatives like Farmers Helpline play a crucial role in such countries, yet challenges such as high operational costs persist. Automating query resolution can alleviate the burden on traditional call centers, providing farmers with immediate and contextually relevant information.The integration of Agriculture and Artificial Intelligence (AI) offers a transformative opportunity to empower farmers and bridge information gaps.Language models like transformers, the rising stars of AI, possess remarkable language understanding capabilities, making them ideal for addressing information gaps in agriculture.This work explores and demonstrates the transformative potential of Large Language Models (LLMs) in automating query resolution for agricultural farmers, leveraging their expertise in deciphering natural language and understanding context. Using a subset of a vast dataset of real-world farmer queries collected in India, our study focuses on approximately 4 million queries from the state of Tamil Nadu, spanning various sectors, seasonal crops, and query types."}
{"Title": "SciTechBaitRO: ClickBait Detection for Romanian Science and Technology News", "Abstract": "In this paper, we introduce a new annotated corpus of clickbait news in a low-resource language - Romanian, and a rarely covered domain - science and technology news: SciTechBaitRO. It is one of the first and the largest corpus (almost 11,000 examples) of annotated clickbait texts for the Romanian language and the first one to focus on the sci-tech domain, to our knowledge. We evaluate the possibility of automatically detecting clickbait through a series of data analysis and machine learning experiments with varied features and models, including a range of linguistic features, classical machine learning models, deep learning and pre-trained models. We compare the performance of models using different kinds of features, and show that the best results are given by the BERT models, with results of up to 89{\\%} F1 score. We additionally evaluate the models in a cross-domain setting for news belonging to other categories (i.e. politics, sports, entertainment) and demonstrate their capacity to generalize by detecting clickbait news outside of domain with high F1-scores."}
{"Title": "Investigating Ableism in LLMs through Multi-turn Conversation", "Abstract": "To reveal ableism (i.e., bias against persons with disabilities) in large language models (LLMs), we introduce a novel approach involving multi-turn conversations, enabling a comparative assessment. Initially, we prompt the LLM to elaborate short biographies, followed by a request to incorporate information about a disability. Finally, we employ several methods to identify the top words that distinguish the disability-integrated biographies from those without. This comparative setting helps us uncover how LLMs handle disability-related information and reveal underlying biases. We observe that LLMs tend to highlight disabilities in a manner that can be perceived as patronizing or as implying that overcoming challenges is unexpected due to the disability."}
{"Title": "Eliciting Uncertainty in Chain-of-Thought to Mitigate Bias against Forecasting Harmful User Behaviors", "Abstract": "Conversation forecasting tasks a model with predicting the outcome of an unfolding conversation. For instance, it can be applied in social media moderation to predict harmful user behaviors before they occur, allowing for preventative interventions. While large language models (LLMs) have recently been proposed as an effective tool for conversation forecasting, it{'}s unclear what biases they may have, especially against forecasting the (potentially harmful) outcomes we request them to predict during moderation. This paper explores to what extent model uncertainty can be used as a tool to mitigate potential biases. Specifically, we ask three primary research questions: 1) how does LLM forecasting accuracy change when we ask models to represent their uncertainty; 2) how does LLM bias change when we ask models to represent their uncertainty; 3) how can we use uncertainty representations to reduce or completely mitigate biases without many training data points. We address these questions for 5 open-source language models tested on 2 datasets designed to evaluate conversation forecasting for social media moderation."}
{"Title": "Inferring Mental Burnout Discourse Across Reddit Communities", "Abstract": "Mental burnout refers to a psychological syndrome induced by chronic stress that negatively impacts the emotional and physical well-being of individuals. From the occupational context to personal hobbies, burnout is pervasive across domains and therefore affects the morale and productivity of society as a whole. Currently, no linguistic resources are available for the analysis or detection of burnout language. We address this gap by introducing a dataset annotated for burnout language. Given that social media is a platform for sharing life experiences and mental health struggles, our work examines the manifestation of burnout language in Reddit posts. We introduce a contextual word sense disambiguation approach to identify the specific meaning or context in which the word {``}burnout{''} is used, distinguishing between its application in mental health (e.g., job-related stress leading to burnout) and non-mental health contexts (e.g., engine burnout in a mechanical context). We create a dataset of 2,330 manually labeled Reddit posts for this task, as well as annotating the reason the poster associates with their burnout (e.g., professional, personal, non-traditional). We train machine learning models on this dataset achieving a minimum F1 score of 0.84 on the different tasks. We make our dataset of annotated Reddit post IDs publicly available to help advance future research in this field."}
{"Title": "Decoding Ableism in Large Language Models: An Intersectional Approach", "Abstract": "With the pervasive use of large language models (LLMs) across various domains, addressing the inherent ableist biases within these models requires more attention and resolution. This paper examines ableism in three LLMs (GPT-3.5, GPT-4, and Llama 3) by analyzing the intersection of disability with two additional social categories: gender and social class. Utilizing two task-specific prompts, we generated and analyzed text outputs with two metrics, VADER and regard, to evaluate sentiment and social perception biases within the responses. Our results indicate a marked improvement in bias mitigation from GPT-3.5 to GPT-4, with the latter demonstrating more positive sentiments overall, while Llama 3 showed comparatively weaker performance. Additionally, our findings underscore the complexity of intersectional biases: These biases are shaped by the combined effects of disability, gender, and class, which alter the expression and perception of ableism in LLM outputs. This research highlights the necessity for more nuanced and inclusive bias mitigation strategies in AI development, contributing to the ongoing dialogue on ethical AI practices."}
{"Title": "Explainable Identification of Hate Speech towards Islam using Graph Neural Networks", "Abstract": "Islamophobic language on online platforms fosters intolerance, making detection and elimination crucial for promoting harmony. Traditional hate speech detection models rely on NLP techniques like tokenization, part-of-speech tagging, and encoder-decoder models. However, Graph Neural Networks (GNNs), with their ability to utilize relationships between data points, offer more effective detection and greater explainability. In this work, we represent speeches as nodes and connect them with edges based on their context and similarity to develop the graph. This study introduces a novel paradigm using GNNs to identify and explain hate speech towards Islam. Our model leverages GNNs to understand the context and patterns of hate speech by connecting texts via pretrained NLP-generated word embeddings, achieving state-of-the-art performance and enhancing detection accuracy while providing valuable explanations. This highlights the potential of GNNs in combating online hate speech and fostering a safer, more inclusive online environment."}
{"Title": "From Text to Maps: LLM-Driven Extraction and Geotagging of Epidemiological Data", "Abstract": "Epidemiological datasets are essential for public health analysis and decision-making, yet they remain scarce and often difficult to compile due to inconsistent data formats, language barriers, and evolving political boundaries. Traditional methods of creating such datasets involve extensive manual effort and are prone to errors in accurate location extraction. To address these challenges, we propose utilizing large language models (LLMs) to automate the extraction and geotagging of epidemiological data from textual documents. Our approach significantly reduces the manual effort required, limiting human intervention to validating a subset of records against text snippets and verifying the geotagging reasoning, as opposed to reviewing multiple entire documents manually to extract, clean, and geotag. Additionally, the LLMs identify information often overlooked by human annotators, further enhancing the dataset{'}s completeness. Our findings demonstrate that LLMs can be effectively used to semi-automate the extraction and geotagging of epidemiological data, offering several key advantages: (1) comprehensive information extraction with minimal risk of missing critical details; (2) minimal human intervention; (3) higher-resolution data with more precise geotagging; and (4) significantly reduced resource demands compared to traditional methods."}
{"Title": "Crafting Tomorrow's Headlines: Neural News Generation and Detection in English, Turkish, Hungarian, and Persian", "Abstract": "In the era dominated by information overload and its facilitation with Large Language Models (LLMs), the prevalence of misinformation poses a significant threat to public discourse and societal well-being. A critical concern at present involves the identification of machine-generated news. In this work, we take a significant step by introducing a benchmark dataset designed for neural news detection in four languages: English, Turkish, Hungarian, and Persian. The dataset incorporates outputs from multiple multilingual generators (in both, zero-shot and fine-tuned setups) such as BloomZ, LLaMa-2, Mistral, Mixtral, and GPT-4. Next, we experiment with a variety of classifiers, ranging from those based on linguistic features to advanced Transformer-based models and LLMs prompting. We present the detection results aiming to delve into the interpretablity and robustness of machine-generated texts detectors across all target languages."}
{"Title": "Reference-Based Metrics Are Biased Against Blind and Low-Vision Users' Image Description Preferences", "Abstract": "Image description generation models are sophisticated Vision-Language Models which promise to make visual content, such as images, non-visually accessible through linguistic descriptions. While these systems can benefit all, their primary motivation tends to lie in allowing blind and low-vision (BLV) users access to increasingly visual (online) discourse. Well-defined evaluation methods are crucial for steering model development into socially useful directions. In this work, we show that the most popular evaluation metrics (reference-based metrics) are biased against BLV users and therefore potentially stifle useful model development. Reference-based metrics assign quality scores based on the similarity to human-generated ground-truth descriptions and are widely accepted as neutrally representing the needs of all users. However, we find that these metrics are more strongly correlated with sighted participant ratings than BLV ratings, and we explore factors which appear to mediate this finding: description length, the image{'}s context of appearance, and the number of reference descriptions available. These findings suggest that there is a need for developing evaluation methods that are established based on specific downstream user groups, and they highlight the importance of reflecting on emerging biases against minorities in the development of general-purpose automatic metrics."}
{"Title": "MultiClimate: Multimodal Stance Detection on Climate Change Videos", "Abstract": "Climate change (CC) has attracted increasing attention in NLP in recent years. However, detecting the stance on CC in multimodal data is understudied and remains challenging due to a lack of reliable datasets. To improve the understanding of public opinions and communication strategies, this paper presents MultiClimate, the first open-source manually-annotated stance detection dataset with 100 CC-related YouTube videos and 4,209 frame-transcript pairs. We deploy state-of-the-art vision and language models, as well as multimodal models for MultiClimate stance detection. Results show that text-only BERT significantly outperforms image-only ResNet50 and ViT. Combining both modalities achieves state-of-the-art, 0.747/0.749 in accuracy/F1. Our 100M-sized fusion models also beat CLIP and BLIP, as well as the much larger 9B-sized multimodal IDEFICS and text-only Llama3 and Gemma2, indicating that multimodal stance detection remains challenging for large language models. Our code, dataset, as well as supplementary materials, are available at https://github.com/werywjw/MultiClimate."}
{"Title": "AAVENUE: Detecting LLM Biases on NLU Tasks in AAVE via a Novel Benchmark", "Abstract": "Detecting biases in natural language understanding (NLU) for African American Vernacular English (AAVE) is crucial to developing inclusive natural language processing (NLP) systems. To address dialect-induced performance discrepancies, we introduce AAVENUE (AAVE Natural Language Understanding Evaluation), a benchmark for evaluating large language model (LLM) performance on NLU tasks in AAVE and Standard American English (SAE). AAVENUE builds upon and extends existing benchmarks like VALUE, replacing deterministic syntactic and morphological transformations with a more flexible methodology leveraging LLM-based translation with few-shot prompting, improving performance across our evaluation metrics when translating key tasks from the GLUE and SuperGLUE benchmarks. We compare AAVENUE and VALUE translations using five popular LLMs and a comprehensive set of metrics including fluency, BARTScore, quality, coherence, and understandability. Additionally, we recruit fluent AAVE speakers to validate our translations for authenticity. Our evaluations reveal that LLMs consistently perform better on SAE tasks than AAVE-translated versions, underscoring inherent biases and highlighting the need for more inclusive NLP models."}
{"Title": "DiversityMedQA: A Benchmark for Assessing Demographic Biases in Medical Diagnosis using Large Language Models", "Abstract": "As large language models (LLMs) gain traction in healthcare, concerns about their susceptibility to demographic biases are growing. We introduce DiversityMedQA, a novel benchmark designed to assess LLM responses to medical queries across diverse patient demographics, such as gender and ethnicity. By perturbing questions from the MedQA dataset, which comprises of medical board exam questions, we created a benchmark that captures the nuanced differences in medical diagnosis across varying patient profiles. To ensure that our perturbations did not alter the clinical outcomes, we implemented a filtering strategy to validate each perturbation, so that any performance discrepancies would be indicative of bias. Our findings reveal notable discrepancies in model performance when tested against these demographic variations. By releasing DiversityMedQA, we provide a resource for evaluating and mitigating demographic bias in LLM medical diagnoses."}
{"Title": "Improving Industrial Safety by Auto-Generating Case-specific Preventive Recommendations", "Abstract": "In this paper, we propose a novel application to improve industrial safety by generating preventive recommendations using LLMs. Using a dataset of 275 incidents representing 11 different incident types sampled from real-life OSHA incidents, we compare three different LLMs to evaluate the quality of preventive recommendations generated by them. We also show that LLMs are not a panacea for the preventive recommendation generation task. They have limitations and can produce responses that are incorrect or irrelevant. We found that about 65{\\%} of the output from Vicuna model was not acceptable at all at the basic readability and other sanity checks level. Mistral and Phi{\\_}3 are better than Vicuna, but not all of their recommendations are of similar quality. We find that for a given safety incident case, the generated recommendations can be categorized as specific, generic, or irrelevant. This helps us to better quantify and compare the performance of the models. This paper is among the initial and novel work for the preventive recommendation generation problem. We believe it will pave way for use of NLP to positively impact the industrial safety."}
{"Title": "TokenSHAP: Interpreting Large Language Models with Monte Carlo Shapley Value Estimation", "Abstract": "As large language models (LLMs) become increasingly prevalent in critical applications, the need for interpretable AI has grown. We introduce TokenSHAP, a novel method for interpreting LLMs by attributing importance to individual tokens or substrings within input prompts. This approach adapts Shapley values from cooperative game theory to natural language processing, offering a rigorous framework for understanding how different parts of an input contribute to a model{'}s response. TokenSHAP leverages Monte Carlo sampling for computational efficiency, providing interpretable, quantitative measures of token importance. We demonstrate its efficacy across diverse prompts and LLM architectures, showing consistent improvements over existing baselines in alignment with human judgments, faithfulness to model behavior, and consistency. Our method{'}s ability to capture nuanced interactions between tokens provides valuable insights into LLM behavior, enhancing model transparency, improving prompt engineering, and aiding in the development of more reliable AI systems. TokenSHAP represents a significant step towards the necessary interpretability for responsible AI deployment, contributing to the broader goal of creating more transparent, accountable, and trustworthy AI systems. Open Source code https://github.com/ronigold/TokenSHAP"}
{"Title": "Prediction of CRISPR On-Target Effects via Deep Learning", "Abstract": "Since the advent of CRISPR-Cas9, a groundbreaking gene-editing technology that enables precise genomic modifications via a short RNA guide sequence, there has been a marked increase in the accessibility and application of this technology across various fields. The success of CRISPR-Cas9 has spurred further investment and led to the discovery of additional CRISPR systems, including CRISPR-Cas13. Distinct from Cas9, which targets DNA, Cas13 targets RNA, offering unique advantages for gene modulation. We focus on Cas13d, a variant known for its collateral activity where it non-specifically cleaves adjacent RNA molecules upon activation, a feature critical to its function. We introduce DeepFM-Crispr, a novel deep learning model developed to predict the on-target efficiency and evaluate the off-target effects of Cas13d. This model harnesses a large language model to generate comprehensive representations rich in evolutionary and structural data, thereby enhancing predictions of RNA secondary structures and overall sgRNA efficacy. A transformer-based architecture processes these inputs to produce a predictive efficacy score. Comparative experiments show that DeepFM-Crispr not only surpasses traditional models but also outperforms recent state-of-the-art deep learning methods in terms of prediction accuracy and reliability."}
{"Title": "What an Elegant Bridge: Multilingual LLMs are Biased Similarly in Different Languages", "Abstract": "This paper investigates biases of Large Language Models (LLMs) through the lens of grammatical gender. Drawing inspiration from seminal works in psycholinguistics, particularly the study of gender{'}s influence on language perception, we leverage multilingual LLMs to revisit and expand upon the foundational experiments of Boroditsky (2003). Employing LLMs as a novel method for examining psycholinguistic biases related to grammatical gender, we prompt a model to describe nouns with adjectives in various languages, focusing specifically on languages with grammatical gender. In particular, we look at adjective co-occurrences across gender and languages, and train a binary classifier to predict grammatical gender given adjectives an LLM uses to describe a noun. Surprisingly, we find that a simple classifier can not only predict noun gender above chance but also exhibit cross-language transferability. We show that while LLMs may describe words differently in different languages, they are biased similarly."}
{"Title": "PsychoLex: Unveiling the Psychological Mind of Large Language Models", "Abstract": "This paper explores the intersection of psychology and artificial intelligence through the development and evaluation of specialized Large Language Models (LLMs). We introduce PsychoLex , a suite of resources designed to enhance LLMs{'} proficiency in psychological tasks in both Persian and English. Key contributions include the PsychoLexQA dataset for instructional content and the PsychoLexEval dataset for rigorous evaluation of LLMs in complex psychological scenarios. Additionally, we present the PsychoLexLLaMA model, optimized specifically for psychological applications, demonstrating superior performance compared to general-purpose models. The findings underscore the potential of tailored LLMs for advancing psychological research and applications, while also highlighting areas for further refinement. This research offers a foundational step towards integrating LLMs into specialized psychological domains, with implications for future advancements in AI-driven psychological practice."}
{"Title": "Two-Stage Graph-Augmented Summarization of Scientific Documents", "Abstract": "Automatic text summarization helps to digest the vast and ever-growing amount of scientific publications. While transformer-based solutions like BERT and SciBERT have advanced scientific summarization, lengthy documents pose a challenge due to the token limits of these models. To address this issue, we introduce and evaluate a two-stage model that combines an extract-then-compress framework. Our model incorporates a {``}graph-augmented extraction module{''} to select order-based salient sentences and an {``}abstractive compression module{''} to generate concise summaries. Additionally, we introduce the *BioConSumm* dataset, which focuses on biodiversity conservation, to support underrepresented domains and explore domain-specific summarization strategies. Out of the tested models, our model achieves the highest ROUGE-2 and ROUGE-L scores on our newly created dataset (*BioConSumm*) and on the *SUMPUBMED* dataset, which serves as a benchmark in the field of biomedicine."}
{"Title": "GCD-TM: Graph-Driven Community Detection for Topic Modelling in Psychiatry Texts", "Abstract": "Psychiatry texts provide critical insights into patient mental states and therapeutic interactions. These texts are essential for understanding psychiatric conditions, treatment dynamics, and patient responses. However, the complex and diverse nature of psychiatric communications poses significant challenges for traditional topic modeling methods. The intricate language, subtle psychological nuances, and varying lengths of text segments make it difficult to extract coherent and meaningful topics. Conventional approaches often struggle to capture the depth and overlap of themes present in these texts. In this study, we present a novel approach to topic modeling that addresses these limitations by reformulating the problem as a community detection task within a graph constructed from the text corpus. Our methodology includes lemmatization for data standardization, TF-IDF vectorization to create a term-document matrix, and cosine similarity computation to produce a similarity matrix. This matrix is then binarized to form a graph, on which community detection is performed using the Louvain method. The detected communities are subsequently analyzed with Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) to extract topics. Our approach outperforms traditional topic modeling methods, offering more accurate and interpretable topic extraction with improved coherence and lower perplexity."}
{"Title": "SCITUNE: Aligning Large Language Models with Human-Curated Scientific Multimodal Instructions", "Abstract": "Instruction finetuning is a popular paradigm to align large language models (LLM) with human intent. Despite its popularity, this idea is less explored in improving LLMs to align existing foundation models with scientific disciplines, concepts and goals. In this work, we present SciTune as a tuning framework to improve the ability of LLMs to follow multimodal instructions generated from scientific publications. To test our methodology, we train a large multimodal model LLaMA-SciTune that connects a vision encoder and LLM for science-focused visual and language understanding. LLaMA-SciTune significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art models in the generated figure types and captions in SciCap and VisText benchmarks. In comparison to the models that are finetuned with synthetic data only, LLaMA-SciTune surpasses human performance on average and in many sub-categories on the ScienceQA benchmark. Our results demonstrate that human-generated scientific multimodal instructions remain highly valuable in tuning LLMs to perform well on science tasks, despite their lower volume and relative scarcity compared to synthetic data."}
{"Title": "RACER: An LLM-powered Methodology for Scalable Analysis of Semi-structured Mental Health Interviews", "Abstract": "Semi-structured interviews (SSIs) are a commonly employed data-collection method in healthcare research, offering in-depth qualitative insights into subject experiences. Despite their value, manual analysis of SSIs is notoriously time-consuming and labor-intensive, in part due to the difficulty of extracting and categorizing emotional responses, and challenges in scaling human evaluation for large populations. In this study, we develop RACER, a Large Language Model (LLM) based expert-guided automated pipeline that efficiently converts raw interview transcripts into insightful domain-relevant themes and sub-themes. We used RACER to analyze SSIs conducted with 93 healthcare professionals and trainees to assess the broad personal and professional mental health impacts of the COVID-19 crisis. RACER achieves moderately high agreement with two human evaluators (72{\\%}), which approaches the human inter-rater agreement (77{\\%}). Interestingly, LLMs and humans struggle with similar content involving nuanced emotional, ambivalent/dialectical, and psychological statements. Our study highlights the opportunities and challenges in using LLMs to improve research efficiency and opens new avenues for scalable analysis of SSIs in healthcare research."}
{"Title": "Soft Measures for Extracting Causal Collective Intelligence", "Abstract": "Understanding and modeling collective intelligence is essential for addressing complex social systems. Directed graphs called fuzzy cognitive maps (FCMs) offer a powerful tool for encoding causal mental models, but extracting high-integrity FCMs from text is challenging. This study presents an approach using large language models (LLMs) to automate FCM extraction. We introduce novel graph-based similarity measures and evaluate them by correlating their outputs with human judgments through the Elo rating system. Results show positive correlations with human evaluations, but even the best-performing measure exhibits limitations in capturing FCM nuances. Fine-tuning LLMs improves performance, but existing measures still fall short. This study highlights the need for soft similarity measures tailored to FCM extraction, advancing collective intelligence modeling with NLP."}
{"Title": "Hypothesis Generation with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Effective generation of novel hypotheses is instrumental to scientific progress. So far, researchers have been the main powerhouse behind hypothesis generation by painstaking data analysis and thinking (also known as the Eureka moment). In this paper, we examine the potential of large language models (LLMs) to generate hypotheses. We focus on hypothesis generation based on data (i.e., labeled examples). To enable LLMs to handle Long contexts, we generate initial hypotheses from a small number of examples and then update them iteratively to improve the quality of hypotheses. Inspired by multi-armed bandits, we design a reward function to inform the exploitation-exploration tradeoff in the update process. Our algorithm is able to generate hypotheses that enable much better predictive performance than few-shot prompting in classification tasks, improving accuracy by 31.7{\\%} on a synthetic dataset and by 13.9{\\%}, 3.3{\\%} and, 24.9{\\%} on three real-world datasets. We also outperform supervised learning by 12.1{\\%} and 11.6{\\%} on two challenging real-world datasets. Furthermore, we find that the generated hypotheses not only corroborate human-verified theories but also uncover new insights for the tasks."}
{"Title": "Dreaming with ChatGPT: Unraveling the Challenges of LLMs Dream Generation", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, are used daily for different human-like text generation tasks. This motivates us to ask: \\textit{Can an LLM generate human dreams?} For this research, we explore this new avenue through the lens of ChatGPT, and its ability to generate valid dreams. We have three main findings: (i) Chatgpt-4o, the new version of chatGPT, generated all requested dreams. (ii) Generated dreams meet key psychological criteria of dreams. We hope our work will set the stage for developing a new task of dream generation for LLMs. This task can help psychologists evaluate patients{'} dreams based on their demographic factors."}
{"Title": "LLMs and NLP for Generalized Learning in AI-Enhanced Educational Videos and Powering Curated Videos with Generative Intelligence", "Abstract": "LLMs and NLP for Generalized Learning in AI-Enhanced Educational Videos and Powering Curated Videos with Generative IntelligenceAuthors - Naina Chaturvedi, Rutgers UniversityAnanda Gunawardena, Rutgers UniversityContact: cnaina1601@gmail.com or nc832@cs.rutgers.eduThe rapid advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) technologies has opened new frontiers in educational content creation and consumption. This paper explores the intersection of these technologies with instructional videos in computer science education, addressing the crucial aspect of generalization in NLP models within an educational context.With 78{\\%} of computer science students utilizing YouTube to supplement traditional learning materials, there{'}s a clear demand for high-quality video content. However, the challenge of finding appropriate resources has led 73{\\%} of students to prefer curated video libraries. We propose a novel approach that leverages LLMs and NLP techniques to revolutionize this space, focusing on the ability of these models to generalize across diverse educational content and contexts.Our research utilizes the cubits.ai platform, developed at Princeton University, to demonstrate how generative AI, powered by advanced LLMs, can transform standard video playlists into interactive, AI-enhanced learning experiences. We present a framework for creating AI-generated video summaries, on-demand questions, and in-depth topic explorations, all while considering the challenges posed by LLMs trained on vast, often opaque datasets. Our approach not only enhances student engagement but also provides a unique opportunity to study how well these models generalize across different educational topics and student needs.Drawing insights from computer science courses at Princeton and Rutgers Universities, we highlight the transformative potential of AI-enhanced videos in promoting active learning, particularly in large classes. This research contributes to the ongoing dialogue about generalization in NLP while simultaneously demonstrating practical applications in educational technology. By bridging these domains, we aim to establish a shared platform for state-of-the-art generalization testing in NLP within an educational framework.Our findings not only demonstrate how educators can enhance existing video playlists using AI but also provide insights into the challenges and opportunities of using LLMs in educational settings. This work serves as a cornerstone for catalyzing research on generalization in the NLP community, particularly focusing on the application and evaluation of LLMs in adaptive, personalized learning environments.Keywords: Instructional videos; AI-enhanced learning; Large Language Models (LLMs); Natural Language Processing (NLP); generalization in NLP; computer science education; cubits.ai platform; AI-generated content; interactive video experiences; video summarization; on-demand questions; personalized learning; active learning; data-driven insights; generative AI; educational technology; adaptive learning environments"}
{"Title": "The Moral Foundations Weibo Corpus", "Abstract": "Moral sentiments expressed in natural language significantly influence both online and offline environments, shaping behavioral styles and interaction patterns, including social media self-presentation, cyberbullying, adherence to social norms, and ethical decision-making. To effectively measure moral sentiments in natural language processing texts, it is crucial to utilize large, annotated datasets that provide nuanced understanding for accurate analysis and model training. However, existing corpora, while valuable, often face linguistic limitations. To address this gap in the Chinese language domain, we introduce the Moral Foundation Weibo Corpus. This corpus consists of 25,671 Chinese comments on Weibo, encompassing six diverse topic areas. Each comment is manually annotated by at least three systematically trained annotators based on ten moral categories derived from a grounded theory of morality. To assess annotator reliability, we present the kappa test results, a gold standard for measuring consistency. Additionally, we apply several the latest large language models to supplement the manual annotations, conducting analytical experiments to compare their performance and report baseline results for moral sentiment classification."}
{"Title": "Why So Serious: Humor and its Association with Treatment Measurements Process and Outcome", "Abstract": "Humor is an important social construct with various roles in human communication, yet clinicians remain divided on its appropriateness and effectiveness. Despite its importance, empirical research on humor in psychotherapy is limited. This study explores the theoretical concept of {``}humor{''} by examining the operational variable of {``}laughs{''} within psychotherapy. Method: We analyzed transcriptions from 872 psychotherapy sessions involving 68 clients treated by 59 therapists. Clients self-reported their symptoms and state of well-being before each session, while both clients and therapists provided self-reports on their therapeutic alliance after each session. Through text analysis, we extracted the number of laughs and words for each session. We investigated the within-client associations between laughs and symptoms, well-being, therapeutic alliance, and clients{'} number of words. Results: We found concurrent session-level associations between laughs and well-being, symptoms, and the number of words. However, no significant associations were observed between laughs and the therapeutic alliance, either from the perspective of the therapist or the client."}
{"Title": "Learning the Bitter Lesson: Empirical Evidence from 20 Years of CVPR Proceedings", "Abstract": "This study examines the alignment of Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) research with the principles of the {``}bitter lesson{''} proposed by Rich Sutton. We analyze two decades of CVPR abstracts and titles using large language models (LLMs) to assess the field{'}s embracement of these principles. Our methodology leverages state-of-the-art natural language processing techniques to systematically evaluate the evolution of research approaches in computer vision. The results reveal significant trends in the adoption of general-purpose learning algorithms and the utilization of increased computational resources. We discuss the implications of these findings for the future direction of computer vision research and its potential impact on broader artificial intelligence development. This work contributes to the ongoing dialogue about the most effective strategies for advancing machine learning and computer vision, offering insights that may guide future research priorities and methodologies in the field."}
{"Title": "Personalized-ABA: Personalized Treatment Plan Generation for Applied Behavior Analysis using Natural Language Processing", "Abstract": "Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a neurological and developmental disability that affects how an individual learns, communicates, interacts with others. Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) is a gold standard therapy for children and adults suffering from ASD to improve their learning, social, and communication skills. Today, 1 in 36 children are diagnosed with ASD with expectations that this rate will only continue to rise. The supply of certified ABA providers is alarmingly insufficient to meet the needs of children with ASD. In fact, waitlists to receive ABA therapy in the United States exceed 10 months in most states. Clinicians or Board Certified Behavior Analysts (BCBAs) are now experiencing intense bottlenecks around diagnostic evaluations and developing treatment plans quickly enough to support timely access to care. Over the past few years, Artificial Intelligence has changed the way industries operate by offering powerful ways to process, analyze, generate, and predict data. In this paper, we have addressed the problem of both time and supply restrictions faced by ABA providers by proposing a novel method for personalized treatment plan generation and program prediction by leveraging the capabilities of Deep Learning and Large Language Models (LLM). Additionally, we have introduced two separate models for behavior program prediction (F1-Score: 0.671) and skill acquisition program predictions (Rouge-1 Score: 0.476) which will help ABA providers in treatment plan implementation. Results are promising: an AI-generated treatment plan demonstrates a high similarity (Average Similarity Score: 0.915) to the original treatment plan written by a BCBA. Finally, as we partnered with a multi-state ABA provider in building this product, we ran a single-blind study that concluded that BCBAs prefer an AI-generated treatment plan 65 percent of the time compared to a BCBA-generated one."}
{"Title": "Exploring Scientific Hypothesis Generation with Mamba", "Abstract": "Generating scientifically grounded hypotheses is a challenging frontier task for generative AI models in science. The difficulty arises from the inherent subjectivity of the task and the extensive knowledge of prior work required to assess the validity of a generated hypothesis. Large Language Models (LLMs), trained on vast datasets from diverse sources, have shown a strong ability to utilize the knowledge embedded in their training data. Recent research has explored using transformer-based models for scientific hypothesis generation, leveraging their advanced capabilities. However, these models often require a significant number of parameters to manage Long sequences, which can be a limitation. State Space Models, such as Mamba, offer an alternative by effectively handling very Long sequences with fewer parameters than transformers. In this work, we investigate the use of Mamba for scientific hypothesis generation. Our preliminary findings indicate that Mamba achieves similar performance w.r.t. transformer-based models of similar sizes for a higher-order complex task like hypothesis generation. We have made our code available here: https://github.com/fglx-c/Exploring-Scientific-Hypothesis-Generation-with-Mamba"}
{"Title": "Benchmarking Automated Theorem Proving with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "Theorem proving presents a significant challenge for large language models (LLMs) due to the requirement for formal proofs to be rigorously checked by proof assistants, such as Lean, eliminating any margin for error or hallucination. While existing LLM-based theorem provers attempt to operate autonomously, they often struggle with novel and complex theorems where human insights are essential. Lean Copilot is a novel framework that integrates LLM inference into the Lean proof assistant environment. In this work, we benchmark performance of several LLMs including general and math-specific models for theorem proving using the Lean Copilot framework. Our initial investigation suggests that a general-purpose large model like LLaMa-70B still has edge over math-specific smaller models for the task under consideration. We provide useful insights into the performance of different LLMs we chose for the task."}
{"Title": "The Grid: A semi-automated tool to support expert-driven modeling", "Abstract": "When building models of human behavior, we often struggle to find data that capture important factors at the right level of granularity. In these cases, we must rely on expert knowledge to build models. To help partially automate the organization of expert knowledge for modeling, we combine natural language processing (NLP) and machine learning (ML) methods in a tool called the Grid. The Grid helps users organize textual knowledge into clickable cells aLong two dimensions using iterative, collaborative clustering. We conduct a user study to explore participants{'} reactions to the Grid, as well as to investigate whether its clustering feature helps participants organize a corpus of expert knowledge. We find that participants using the Grid{'}s clustering feature appeared to work more efficiently than those without it, but written feedback about the clustering was critical. We conclude that the general design of the Grid was positively received and that some of the user challenges can likely be mitigated through the use of LLMs."}
{"Title": "Categorical Syllogisms Revisited: A Review of the Logical Reasoning Abilities of LLMs for Analyzing Categorical Syllogisms", "Abstract": "There has been a huge number of benchmarks proposed to evaluate how large language models (LLMs) behave for logic inference tasks. However, it remains an open question how to properly evaluate this ability. In this paper, we provide a systematic overview of prior works on the logical reasoning ability of LLMs for analyzing categorical syllogisms. We first investigate all the possible variations for categorical syllogisms from a purely logical perspective and then examine the underlying configurations (i.e., mood and figure) tested by existing datasets. Our results indicate that compared to template-based synthetic datasets, crowdsourcing approaches normally sacrifice the coverage of configurations (i.e., mood and figure) of categorical syllogisms for more language variations, thus bringing challenges to fully testing LLMs under different situations. We then summarize the findings and observations for the performance of LLMs to infer the validity of syllogisms from the current literature. The error rate breakdown analyses suggest that the interpretation of quantifiers seems to be the current bottleneck that limits the performance of the LLMs and is thus worth more attention. Finally, we discuss several points that might be worth considering when researchers plan to release categorical syllogism datasets. We hope our work will provide a timely review of the current literature regarding categorical syllogisms, and motivate more interdisciplinary research between communities, specifically computational linguists and logicians."}
{"Title": "Individuation in Neural Models with and without Visual Grounding", "Abstract": "We show differences between a language-and-vision model CLIP and two text-only models {---} FastText and SBERT {---} when it comes to the encoding of individuation information. We study latent representations that CLIP provides for substrates, granular aggregates, and various numbers of objects. We demonstrate that CLIP embeddings capture quantitative differences in individuation better than models trained on text-only data. Moreover, the individuation hierarchy we deduce from the CLIP embeddings agrees with the hierarchies proposed in linguistics and cognitive science."}
{"Title": "CogErgLLM: Exploring Large Language Model Systems Design Perspective Using Cognitive Ergonomics", "Abstract": "Integrating cognitive ergonomics with LLMs is crucial for improving safety, reliability, and user satisfaction in human-AI interactions. Current LLM designs often lack this integration, resulting in systems that may not fully align with human cognitive capabilities and limitations. This oversight exacerbates biases in LLM outputs and leads to suboptimal user experiences due to inconsistent application of user-centered design principles. Researchers are increasingly leveraging NLP, particularly LLMs, to model and understand human behavior across social sciences, psychology, psychiatry, health, and neuroscience. Our position paper explores the need to integrate cognitive ergonomics into LLM design, providing a comprehensive framework and practical guidelines for ethical development. By addressing these challenges, we aim to advance safer, more reliable, and ethically sound human-AI interactions."}
{"Title": "Observing the Southern US Culture of Honor Using Large-Scale Social Media Analysis", "Abstract": "A culture of honor refers to a social system where individuals{'} status, reputation, and esteem play a central role in governing interpersonal relations. Past works have associated this concept with the United States (US) South and related with it various traits such as higher sensitivity to insult, a higher value on reputation, and a tendency to react violently to insults. In this paper, we hypothesize and confirm that internet users from the US South, where a culture of honor is more prevalent, are more likely to display a trait predicted by their belonging to a culture of honor. Specifically, we test the hypothesis that US Southerners are more likely to retaliate to personal attacks by personally attacking back. We leverage OpenAI{'}s GPT-3.5 API to both geolocate internet users and to automatically detect whether users are insulting each other. We validate the use of GPT-3.5 by measuring its performance on manually-labeled subsets of the data. Our work demonstrates the potential of formulating a hypothesis based on a conceptual framework, operationalizing it in a way that is amenable to large-scale LLM-aided analysis, manually validating the use of the LLM, and drawing a conclusion."}
{"Title": "Should We Respect LLMs? A Cross-Lingual Study on the Influence of Prompt Politeness on LLM Performance", "Abstract": "We investigate the impact of politeness levels in prompts on the performance of large language models (LLMs). Polite language in human communications often garners more compliance and effectiveness, while rudeness can cause aversion, impacting response quality. We consider that LLMs mirror human communication traits, suggesting they align with human cultural norms. We assess the impact of politeness in prompts on LLMs across English, Chinese, and Japanese tasks. We observed that impolite prompts often result in poor performance, but overly polite language does not guarantee better outcomes. The best politeness level is different according to the language. This phenomenon suggests that LLMs not only reflect human behavior but are also influenced by language, particularly in different cultural contexts. Our findings highlight the need to factor in politeness for cross-cultural natural language processing and LLM usage."}
{"Title": "Personality Differences Drive Conversational Dynamics: A High-Dimensional NLP Approach", "Abstract": "This paper investigates how the topical flow of dyadic conversations emerges over time and how differences in interlocutors{'} personality traits contribute to this topical flow. Leveraging text embeddings, we map the trajectories of conversations between strangers into a high-dimensional space. Using nonlinear projections and clustering, we then identify when each interlocutor enters and exits various topics. Differences in conversational flow are quantified via , a summary measure of the {``}spread{''} of topics covered during a conversation, and , a time-varying measure of the cosine similarity between interlocutors{'} embeddings. Our findings suggest that interlocutors with a larger difference in the personality dimension of openness influence each other to spend more time discussing a wider range of topics and that interlocutors with a larger difference in extraversion experience a larger decrease in linguistic alignment throughout their conversation. We also examine how participants{'} affect (emotion) changes from before to after a conversation, finding that a larger difference in extraversion predicts a larger difference in affect change and that a greater topic entropy predicts a larger affect increase. This work demonstrates how communication research can be advanced through the use of high-dimensional NLP methods and identifies personality difference as an important driver of social influence."}
{"Title": "RecomMind: Movie Recommendation Dialogue with Seeker's Internal State", "Abstract": "Humans pay careful attention to the interlocutor{'}s internal state in dialogues. For example, in recommendation dialogues, we make recommendations while estimating the seeker{'}s internal state, such as his/her level of knowledge and interest. Since there are no existing annotated resources for the analysis and experiment, we constructed RecomMind, a movie recommendation dialogue dataset with annotations of the seeker{'}s internal state at the entity level. Each entity has a first-person label annotated by the seeker and a second-person label annotated by the recommender. Our analysis based on RecomMind reveals that the success of recommendations is enhanced when recommenders mention entities that seekers do not know but are interested in. We also propose a response generation framework that explicitly considers the seeker{'}s internal state, utilizing the chain-of-thought prompting. The human evaluation results show that our proposed method outperforms the baseline method in both consistency and the success of recommendations."}
{"Title": "Redefining Proactivity for Information Seeking Dialogue", "Abstract": "Humans pay careful attention to the interlocutor{'}s internal state in dialogues. For example, in recommendation dialogues, we make recommendations while estimating the seeker{'}s internal state, such as his/her level of knowledge and interest. Since there are no existing annotated resources for the analysis and experiment, we constructed RecomMind, a movie recommendation dialogue dataset with annotations of the seeker{'}s internal state at the entity level. Each entity has a first-person label annotated by the seeker and a second-person label annotated by the recommender. Our analysis based on RecomMind reveals that the success of recommendations is enhanced when recommenders mention entities that seekers do not know but are interested in. We also propose a response generation framework that explicitly considers the seeker{'}s internal state, utilizing the chain-of-thought prompting. The human evaluation results show that our proposed method outperforms the baseline method in both consistency and the success of recommendations."}
{"Title": "Leveraging Large Language Models for Code-Mixed Data Augmentation in Sentiment Analysis", "Abstract": "Code-mixing (CM), where speakers blend languages within a single expression, is prevalent in multilingual societies but poses challenges for natural language processing due to its complexity and limited data. We propose using a large language model to generate synthetic CM data, which is then used to enhance the performance of task-specific models for CM sentiment analysis. Our results show that in Spanish-English, synthetic data improved the F1 score by 9.32{\\%}, outperforming previous augmentation techniques. However, in Malayalam-English, synthetic data only helped when the baseline was low; with strong natural data, additional synthetic data offered little benefit. Human evaluation confirmed that this approach is a simple, cost-effective way to generate natural-sounding CM sentences, particularly beneficial for low baselines. Our findings suggest that few-shot prompting of large language models is a promising method for CM data augmentation and has significant impact on improving sentiment analysis, an important element in the development of social influence systems."}
{"Title": "Balancing Transparency and Accuracy: A Comparative Analysis of Rule-Based and Deep Learning Models in Political Bias Classification", "Abstract": "The unchecked spread of digital information, combined with increasing political polarization and the tendency of individuals to isolate themselves from opposing political viewpoints opposing views, has driven researchers to develop systems for automatically detecting political bias in media. This trend has been further fueled by discussions on social media. We explore methods for categorizing bias in US news articles, comparing rule-based and deep learning approaches. The study highlights the sensitivity of modern self-learning systems to unconstrained data ingestion, while reconsidering the strengths of traditional rule-based systems. Applying both models to left-leaning (CNN) and right-leaning (FOX) News articles, we assess their effectiveness on data beyond the original training and test sets. This analysis highlights each model{'}s accuracy, offers a framework for exploring deep-learning explainability, and sheds light on political bias in US news media. We contrast the opaque architecture of a deep learning model with the transparency of a linguistically informed rule-based model, showing that the rule-based model performs consistently across different data conditions and offers greater transparency, whereas the deep learning model is dependent on the training set and struggles with unseen data."}
{"Title": "\u201dSo, are you a different person today?\u201d Analyzing Bias in Questions during Parole Hearings", "Abstract": "During Parole Suitability Hearings commissioners need to evaluate whether an inmate{'}s risk of reoffending has decreased sufficiently to justify their release from prison before completing their full sentence. The conversation between the commissioners and the inmate is the key element of such hearings and is largely driven by question-and-answer patterns which can be influenced by the commissioner{'}s questioning behavior. To our knowledge, no previous study has investigated the relationship between the types of questions asked during parole hearings and potentially biased outcomes. We address this gap by analysing commissioner{'}s questioning behavior during Californian parole hearings. We test ChatGPT-4o{'}s capability of annotating questions automatically and achieve a high F1-score of 0.91 without prior training. By analysing all questions posed directly by commissioners to inmates, we tested for potential biases in question types across multiple demographic variables. The results show minimal bias in questioning behavior toward inmates asking for parole."}
{"Title": "Principles for AI-Assisted Social Influence and Their Application to Social Mediation", "Abstract": "Successful social influence, whether at individual or community levels, requires expertise and care in several dimensions of communication: understanding of emotions, beliefs, and values; transparency; and context-aware behavior shaping. Based on our experience in identifying mediation needs in social media and engaging with moderators and users, we developed a set of principles that we believe social influence systems should adhere to to ensure ethical operation, effectiveness, widespread adoption, and trust by users on both sides of the engagement of influence. We demonstrate these principles in D-ESC: Dialogue Assistant for Engaging in Social-Cybermediation, in the context of AI-assisted social media mediation, a newer paradigm of automatic moderation that responds to unique and changing communities while engendering and maintaining trust in users, moderators, and platform-holders. Through this case study, we identify opportunities for our principles to guide future systems towards greater opportunities for positive social change."}
{"Title": "EHDChat: A Knowledge-Grounded, Empathy-Enhanced Language Model for Healthcare Interactions", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) excel at a range of tasks but often struggle with issues like hallucination and inadequate empathy support. To address hallucinations, we ground our dialogues in medical knowledge sourced from external repositories such as Disease Ontology and DrugBank. To improve empathy support, we develop the Empathetic Healthcare Dialogues dataset, which utilizes multiple dialogue strategies in each response. This dataset is then used to fine-tune an LLM, and we introduce a lightweight, adaptable method called Strategy Combination Guidance to enhance the emotional support capabilities of the fine-tuned model, named EHDChat. Our evaluations show that EHDChat significantly outperforms existing models in providing emotional support and medical accuracy, demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach in enhancing empathetic and informed AI interactions in healthcare."}
{"Title": "Domain-Expanded ASTE: Rethinking Generalization in Aspect Sentiment Triplet Extraction", "Abstract": "Aspect Sentiment Triplet Extraction (ASTE) is a challenging task in sentiment analysis, aiming to provide fine-grained insights into human sentiments. However, existing benchmarks are limited to two domains and do not evaluate model performance on unseen domains, raising concerns about the generalization of proposed methods. Furthermore, it remains unclear if large language models (LLMs) can effectively handle complex sentiment tasks like ASTE. In this work, we address the issue of generalization in ASTE from both a benchmarking and modeling perspective. We introduce a domain-expanded benchmark by annotating samples from diverse domains, enabling evaluation of models in both in-domain and out-of-domain settings. Additionally, we propose CASE, a simple and effective decoding strategy that enhances trustworthiness and performance of LLMs in ASTE. Through comprehensive experiments involving multiple tasks, settings, and models, we demonstrate that CASE can serve as a general decoding strategy for complex sentiment tasks. By expanding the scope of evaluation and providing a more reliable decoding strategy, we aim to inspire the research community to reevaluate the generalizability of benchmarks and models for ASTE. Our code, data, and models are available at https://github.com/DAMO-NLP-SG/domain-expanded-aste."}
{"Title": "MultiLS: An End-to-End Lexical Simplification Framework", "Abstract": "Lexical Simplification (LS) automatically replaces difficult to read words for easier alternatives while preserving a sentence{'}s original meaning. Several datasets exist for LS and each of them specialize in one or two sub-tasks within the LS pipeline. However, as of this moment, no single LS dataset has been developed that covers all LS sub-tasks. We present MultiLS, the first LS framework that allows for the creation of a multi-task LS dataset. We also present MultiLS-PT, the first dataset created using the MultiLS framework. We demonstrate the potential of MultiLS-PT by carrying out all LS sub-tasks of (1) lexical complexity prediction (LCP), (2) substitute generation, and (3) substitute ranking for Portuguese."}
{"Title": "OtoBERT: Identifying Suffixed Verbal Forms in Modern Hebrew Literature", "Abstract": "We provide a solution for a specific morphological obstacle which often makes Hebrew literature difficult to parse for the younger generation. The morphologically-rich nature of the Hebrew language allows pronominal direct objects to be realized as bound morphemes, suffixed to the verb. Although such suffixes are often utilized in Biblical Hebrew, their use has all but disappeared in modern Hebrew. Nevertheless, authors of modern Hebrew literature, in their search for literary flair, do make use of such forms. These unusual forms are notorious for alienating young readers from Hebrew literature, especially because these rare suffixed forms are often orthographically identical to common Hebrew words with different meanings. Upon encountering such words, readers naturally select the usual analysis of the word; yet, upon completing the sentence, they find themselves confounded. Young readers end up feeling {``}tricked{''}, and this in turn contributes to their alienation from the text. In order to address this challenge, we pretrained a new BERT model specifically geared to identify such forms, so that they may be automatically simplified and/or flagged. We release this new BERT model to the public for unrestricted use."}
{"Title": "CompLex-ZH: A New Dataset for Lexical Complexity Prediction in Mandarin and Cantonese", "Abstract": "The prediction of lexical complexity in context is assuming an increasing relevance in Natural Language Processing research, since identifying complex words is often the first step of text simplification pipelines. To the best of our knowledge, though, datasets annotated with complex words are available only for English and for a limited number of Western languages.In our paper, we introduce CompLex-ZH, a dataset including words annotated with complexity scores in sentential contexts for Chinese. Our data include sentences in Mandarin and Cantonese, which were selected from a variety of sources and textual genres. We provide a first evaluation with baselines combining hand-crafted and language models-based features."}
{"Title": "Images Speak Volumes: User-Centric Assessment of Image Generation for Accessible Communication", "Abstract": "Explanatory images play a pivotal role in accessible and easy-to-read (E2R) texts. However, the images available in online databases are not tailored toward the respective texts, and the creation of customized images is expensive. In this large-scale study, we investigated whether text-to-image generation models can close this gap by providing customizable images quickly and easily. We benchmarked seven, four open- and three closed-source, image generation models and provide an extensive evaluation of the resulting images. In addition, we performed a user study with people from the E2R target group to examine whether the images met their requirements. We find that some of the models show remarkable performance, but none of the models are ready to be used at a larger scale without human supervision. Our research is an important step toward facilitating the creation of accessible information for E2R creators and tailoring accessible images to the target group{'}s needs."}
{"Title": "Cochrane-auto: An Aligned Dataset for the Simplification of Biomedical Abstracts", "Abstract": "The most reliable and up-to-date information on health questions is in the biomedical literature, but inaccessible due to the complex language full of jargon. Domain specific scientific text simplification holds the promise to make this literature accessible to a lay audience. Therefore, we create Cochrane-auto: a large corpus of pairs of aligned sentences, paragraphs, and abstracts from biomedical abstracts and lay summaries. Experiments demonstrate that a plan-guided simplification system trained on Cochrane-auto is able to outperform a strong baseline trained on unaligned abstracts and lay summaries. More generally, our freely available corpus complementing Newsela-auto and Wiki-auto facilitates text simplification research beyond the sentence-level and direct lexical and grammatical revisions."}
{"Title": "Considering Human Interaction and Variability in Automatic Text Simplification", "Abstract": "Research into automatic text simplification aims to promote access to information for all members of society. To facilitate generalizability, simplification research often abstracts away from specific use cases, and targets a prototypical reader and an underspecified content creator. In this paper, we consider a real-world use case {--} simplification technology for use in Dutch municipalities {--} and identify the needs of the content creators and the target audiences in this use case. The stakeholders envision a system that (a) assists the human writer without taking over the task; (b) can provide diverse alternative outputs, tailored for specific target audiences; and (c) can explain and motivate the suggestions that it outputs. These requirements call for technology that is characterized by modularity, explainability, and variability. We believe that these are important research directions that require further exploration."}
{"Title": "Society of Medical Simplifiers", "Abstract": "Medical text simplification is crucial for making complex biomedical literature more accessible to non-experts. Traditional methods struggle with the specialized terms and jargon of medical texts, lacking the flexibility to adapt the simplification process dynamically. In contrast, recent advancements in large language models (LLMs) present unique opportunities by offering enhanced control over text simplification through iterative refinement and collaboration between specialized agents. In this work, we introduce the Society of Medical Simplifiers, a novel LLM-based framework inspired by the {``}Society of Mind{''} (SOM) philosophy. Our approach leverages the strengths of LLMs by assigning five distinct roles, i.e., Layperson, Simplifier, Medical Expert, Language Clarifier, and Redundancy Checker, organized into interaction loops. This structure allows the agents to progressively improve text simplification while maintaining the complexity and accuracy of the original content. Evaluations on the Cochrane text simplification dataset demonstrate that our framework is on par with or outperforms state-of-the-art methods, achieving superior readability and content preservation through controlled simplification processes."}
{"Title": "Difficult for Whom? A Study of Japanese Lexical Complexity", "Abstract": "The tasks of lexical complexity prediction (LCP) and complex word identification (CWI) commonly presuppose that difficult-to-understand words are shared by the target population. Meanwhile, personalization methods have also been proposed to adapt models to individual needs. We verify that a recent Japanese LCP dataset is representative of its target population by partially replicating the annotation. By another reannotation we show that native Chinese speakers perceive the complexity differently due to Sino-Japanese vocabulary. To explore the possibilities of personalization, we compare competitive baselines trained on the group mean ratings and individual ratings in terms of performance for an individual. We show that the model trained on a group mean performs similarly to an individual model in the CWI task, while achieving good LCP performance for an individual is difficult. We also experiment with adapting a finetuned BERT model, which results only in marginal improvements across all settings."}
{"Title": "Lexical Complexity Prediction and Lexical Simplification for Catalan and Spanish: Resource Creation, Quality Assessment, and Ethical Considerations", "Abstract": "Automatic lexical simplification is a task to substitute lexical items that may be unfamiliar and difficult to understand with easier and more common words. This paper presents the description and analysis of two novel datasets for lexical simplification in Spanish and Catalan. This dataset represents the first of its kind in Catalan and a substantial addition to the sparse data on automatic lexical simplification which is available for Spanish. Specifically, it is the first dataset for Spanish which includes scalar ratings of the understanding difficulty of lexical items. In addition, we present a detailed analysis aiming at assessing the appropriateness and ethical dimensions of the data for the lexical simplification task."}
{"Title": "SciGisPy: a Novel Metric for Biomedical Text Simplification via Gist Inference Score", "Abstract": "Biomedical literature is often written in highly specialized language, posing significant comprehension challenges for non-experts. Automatic text simplification (ATS) offers a solution by making such texts more accessible while preserving critical information. However, evaluating ATS for biomedical texts is still challenging due to the limitations of existing evaluation metrics. General-domain metrics like SARI, BLEU, and ROUGE focus on surface-level text features, and readability metrics like FKGL and ARI fail to account for domain-specific terminology or assess how well the simplified text conveys core meanings (gist). To address this, we introduce SciGisPy, a novel evaluation metric inspired by Gist Inference Score (GIS) from Fuzzy-Trace Theory (FTT). SciGisPy measures how well a simplified text facilitates the formation of abstract inferences (gist) necessary for comprehension, especially in the biomedical domain. We revise GIS for this purpose by introducing domain-specific enhancements, including semantic chunking, Information Content (IC) theory, and specialized embeddings, while removing unsuitable indexes. Our experimental evaluation on the Cochrane biomedical text simplification dataset demonstrates that SciGisPy outperforms the original GIS formulation, with a significant increase in correctly identified simplified texts (84{\\%} versus 44.8{\\%}). The results and a thorough ablation study confirm that SciGisPy better captures the essential meaning of biomedical content, outperforming existing approaches."}
{"Title": "EASSE-DE & EASSE-multi: Easier Automatic Sentence Simplification Evaluation for German & Multiple Languages", "Abstract": "In this work, we propose EASSE-multi, a framework for easier automatic sentence evaluation for languages other than English. Compared to the original EASSE framework, EASSE-multi does not focus only on English.It contains tokenizers and versions of text simplification evaluation metrics which are suitable for multiple languages. In this paper, we exemplify the usage of EASSE-multi for German TS resulting in EASSE-DE. Further, we compare text simplification results when evaluating with different language or tokenization settings of the metrics. Based on this, we formulate recommendations on how to make the evaluation of (German) TS models more transparent and better comparable. Additionally, we present a benchmark on German TS evaluated with EASSE-DE and make its resources (i.e., test sets, system outputs, and evaluation reports) available. The code of EASSE-multi and its German specialisation (EASSE-DE) can be found at https://github.com/rstodden/easse-multi and https://github.com/rstodden/easse-de."}
{"Title": "Evaluating the Simplification of Brazilian Legal Rulings in LLMs Using Readability Scores as a Target", "Abstract": "Legal documents are often characterized by complex language, including jargon and technical terms, making them challenging for Natural Language Processing (NLP) applications. We apply the readability-controlled text modification task with an emphasis on legal texts simplification. Additionally, our work explores an evaluation based on the comparison of word complexity in the documents using Zipf scale, demonstrating the models{'} ability to simplify text according to the target readability scores, while also identifying a limit to this capability. Our results with Llama-3 and Sabi{\\'a}-2 show that while the complexity score decreases with higher readability targets, there is a trade-off with reduced semantic similarity."}
{"Title": "Measuring and Modifying the Readability of English Texts with GPT-4", "Abstract": "The success of Large Language Models (LLMs) in other domains has raised the question of whether LLMs can reliably assess and manipulate the readability of text. We approach this question empirically. First, using a published corpus of 4,724 English text excerpts, we find that readability estimates produced {``}zero-shot{''} from GPT-4 Turbo and GPT-4o mini exhibit relatively high correlation with human judgments (r = 0.76 and r = 0.74, respectively), out-performing estimates derived from traditional readability formulas and various psycholinguistic indices. Then, in a pre-registered human experiment (N = 59), we ask whether Turbo can reliably make text easier or harder to read. We find evidence to support this hypothesis, though considerable variance in human judgments remains unexplained. We conclude by discussing the limitations of this approach, including limited scope, as well as the validity of the {``}readability{''} construct and its dependence on context, audience, and goal."}
{"Title": "Creative and Context-Aware Translation of East Asian Idioms with GPT-4", "Abstract": "As a type of figurative language, an East Asian idiom condenses rich cultural background into only a few characters. Translating such idioms is challenging for human translators, who often resort to choosing a context-aware translation from an existing list of candidates. However, compiling a dictionary of candidate translations demands much time and creativity even for expert translators. To alleviate such burden, we evaluate if GPT-4 can help generate high-quality translations. Based on automatic evaluations of faithfulness and creativity, we first identify Pareto-optimal prompting strategies that can outperform translation engines from Google and DeepL. Then, at a low cost, our context-aware translations can achieve far more high-quality translations per idiom than the human baseline. We open-source all code and data to facilitate further research."}
{"Title": "An Empirical Study of Multilingual Vocabulary for Neural Machine Translation Models", "Abstract": "In this paper, we discuss multilingual vocabulary for neural machine translation models. Multilingual vocabularies should generate highly accurate machine translations regardless of the languages, and have preferences so that tokenized strings contain rare out-of-vocabulary (OOV) tokens and token sequences are short. In this paper, we discuss the characteristics of various multilingual vocabularies via tokenization and translation experiments. We also present our recommended vocabulary and tokenizer."}
{"Title": "Machine Translation Of Marathi Dialects: A Case Study Of Kadodi", "Abstract": "While Marathi is considered as a low- to middle-resource language, its 42 dialects have mostly been ignored, mainly because these dialects are mostly spoken and rarely written, making them extremely low-resource. In this paper we explore the machine translation (MT) of Kadodi, also known as Samvedi, which is a dialect of Marathi. We first discuss the Kadodi dialect, highlighting the differences from the standard dialect, followed by presenting a manually curated dataset called Suman consisting of a trilingual Kadodi-Marathi-English dictionary of 949 entries and 942 simple sentence triples and idioms created by native Kadodi speakers. We then evaluate 3 existing large language models (LLMs) supporting Marathi, namely Gemma-2-9b, Sarvam-2b-0.5 and LLaMa-3.1-8b, in few-shot prompting style to determine their efficacy for translation involving Kadodi. We observe that these models exhibit rather lackluster performance in handling Kadodi even for simple sentences, indicating a dire situation."}
{"Title": "Are Large Language Models State-of-the-art Quality Estimators for Machine Translation of User-generated Content?", "Abstract": "This paper investigates whether large language models (LLMs) are state-of-the-art quality estimators for machine translation of user-generated content (UGC) that contains emotional expressions, without the use of reference translations. To achieve this, we employ an existing emotion-related dataset with human-annotated errors and calculate quality evaluation scores based on the Multi-dimensional Quality Metrics. We compare the accuracy of several LLMs with that of our fine-tuned baseline models, under in-context learning and parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) scenarios. We find that PEFT of LLMs leads to better performance in score prediction with human interpretable explanations than fine-tuned models. However, a manual analysis of LLM outputs reveals that they still have problems such as refusal to reply to a prompt and unstable output while evaluating machine translation of UGC."}
{"Title": "AI-Tutor: Interactive Learning of Ancient Knowledge from Low-Resource Languages", "Abstract": "Many low-resource languages, such as Prakrit, present significant linguistic complexities and have limited modern-day resources. These languages often have multiple derivatives; for example, Prakrit, a language in use by masses around 2500 years ago for 500 years, includes Pali and Gandhari, which encompass a vast body of Buddhist literature, as well as Ardhamagadhi, rich in Jain literature. Despite these challenges, these languages are invaluable for their historical, religious, and cultural insights needed by non-language experts and others.To explore and understand the deep knowledge within these ancient texts for non-language experts, we propose a novel approach: translating multiple dialects of the parent language into a contemporary language and then enabling them to interact with the system in their native language, including English, Hindi, French and German, through a question-and-answer interface built on Large Language Models. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this novel AI-Tutor system by focusing on Ardhamagadhi and Pali."}
{"Title": "BordIRlines: A Dataset for Evaluating Cross-lingual Retrieval Augmented Generation", "Abstract": "Large language models excel at creative generation but continue to struggle with the issues of hallucination and bias. While retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) provides a framework for grounding LLMs{'} responses in accurate and up-to-date information, it still raises the question of bias: which sources should be selected for inclusion in the context? And how should their importance be weighted? In this paper, we study the challenge of cross-lingual RAG and present a dataset to investigate the robustness of existing systems at answering queries about geopolitical disputes, which exist at the intersection of linguistic, cultural, and political boundaries. Our dataset is sourced from Wikipedia pages containing information relevant to the given queries and we investigate the impact of including additional context, as well as the composition of this context in terms of language and source, on an LLM{'}s response. Our results show that existing RAG systems continue to be challenged by cross-lingual use cases and suffer from a lack of consistency when they are provided with competing information in multiple languages. We present case studies to illustrate these issues and outline steps for future research to address these challenges."}
{"Title": "Multi-Label Field Classification for Scientific Documents using Expert and Crowd-sourced Knowledge", "Abstract": "Taxonomies of scientific research seek to describe complex domains of activity that are overlapping and dynamic. We address this challenge by combining knowledge curated by the Wikipedia community with the input of subject-matter experts to identify, define, and validate a system of 1,110 granular fields of study for use in multi-label classification of scientific publications. The result is capable of categorizing research across subfields of artificial intelligence, computer security, semiconductors, genetics, virology, immunology, neuroscience, biotechnology, and bioinformatics. We then develop and evaluate a solution for zero-shot classification of publications in terms of these fields."}
{"Title": "Uncovering Differences in Persuasive Language in Russian versus English Wikipedia", "Abstract": "We study how differences in persuasive language across Wikipedia articles, written in either English and Russian, can uncover each culture{'}s distinct perspective on different subjects. We develop a large language model (LLM) powered system to identify instances of persuasive language in multilingual texts. Instead of directly prompting LLMs to detect persuasion, which is subjective and difficult, we propose to reframe the task to instead ask high-level questions (HLQs) which capture different persuasive aspects. Importantly, these HLQs are authored by LLMs themselves. LLMs over-generate a large set of HLQs, which are subsequently filtered to a small set aligned with human labels for the original task. We then apply our approach to a large-scale, bilingual dataset of Wikipedia articles (88K total), using a two-stage identify-then-extract prompting strategy to find instances of persuasion. We quantify the amount of persuasion per article, and explore the differences in persuasion through several experiments on the paired articles. Notably, we generate rankings of articles by persuasion in both languages. These rankings match our intuitions on the culturally-salient subjects; Russian Wikipedia highlights subjects on Ukraine, while English Wikipedia highlights the Middle East. Grouping subjects into larger topics, we find politically-related events contain more persuasion than others. We further demonstrate that HLQs obtain similar performance when posed in either English or Russian. Our methodology enables cross-lingual, cross-cultural understanding at scale, and we release our code, prompts, and data."}
{"Title": "Retrieval Evaluation for Long-Form and Knowledge-Intensive Image\u2013Text Article Composition", "Abstract": "This paper examines the integration of images into Wikipedia articles by evaluating image{--}text retrieval tasks in multimedia content creation, focusing on developing retrieval-augmented tools to enhance the creation of high-quality multimedia articles. Despite ongoing research, the interplay between text and visuals, such as photos and diagrams, remains underexplored, limiting support for real-world applications. We introduce AToMiC, a dataset for long-form, knowledge-intensive image{--}text retrieval, detailing its task design, evaluation protocols, and relevance criteria.Our findings show that a hybrid approach combining a sparse retriever with a dense retriever achieves satisfactory effectiveness, with nDCG@10 scores around 0.4 for Image Suggestion and Image Promotion tasks, providing insights into the challenges of retrieval evaluation in an image{--}text interleaved article composition context.The AToMiC dataset is available at https://github.com/TREC-AToMiC/AToMiC."}
{"Title": "WikiBias as an Extrapolation Corpus for Bias Detection", "Abstract": "This paper explores whether it is possible to train a machine learning model using Wikipedia data to detect subjectivity in sentences and generalize effectively to other domains. To achieve this, we performed experiments with the WikiBias corpus, the BABE corpus, and the CheckThat! Dataset. Various classical models for ML were tested, including Logistic Regression, SVC, and SVR, including characteristics such as Sentence Transformers similarity, probabilistic sentiment measures, and biased lexicons. Pre-trained models like DistilRoBERTa, as well as large language models like Gemma and GPT-4, were also tested for the same classification task."}
{"Title": "HOAXPEDIA: A Unified Wikipedia Hoax Articles Dataset", "Abstract": "Hoaxes are a recognised form of disinformation created deliberately, with potential serious implications in the credibility of reference knowledge resources such as Wikipedia. What makes detecting Wikipedia hoaxes hard is that they often are written according to the official style guidelines. In this work, we first provide a systematic analysis of similarities and discrepancies between legitimate and hoax Wikipedia articles, and introduce HOAXPEDIA, a collection of 311 hoax articles (from existing literature and official Wikipedia lists), together with semantically similar legitimate articles, which together form a binary text classification dataset aimed at fostering research in automated hoax detection. In this paper, We report results after analyzing several language models, hoax-to-legit ratios, and the amount of text classifiers are exposed to (full article vs the article{'}s definition alone). Our results suggest that detecting deceitful content in Wikipedia based on content alone is hard but feasible, and complement our analysis with a study on the differences in distributions in edit histories, and find that looking at this feature yields better classification results than context."}
{"Title": "The Rise of AI-Generated Content in Wikipedia", "Abstract": "The rise of AI-generated content in popular information sources raises significant concerns about accountability, accuracy, and bias amplification. Beyond directly impacting consumers, the widespread presence of this content poses questions for the long-term viability of training language models on vast internet sweeps. We use GPTZero, a proprietary AI detector, and Binoculars, an open-source alternative, to establish lower bounds on the presence of AI-generated content in recently created Wikipedia pages. Both detectors reveal a marked increase in AI-generated content in recent pages compared to those from before the release of GPT-3.5. With thresholds calibrated to achieve a 1{\\%} false positive rate on pre-GPT-3.5 articles, detectors flag over 5{\\%} of newly created English Wikipedia articles as AI-generated, with lower percentages for German, French, and Italian articles. Flagged Wikipedia articles are typically of lower quality and are often self-promotional or partial towards a specific viewpoint on controversial topics."}
{"Title": "Embedded Topic Models Enhanced by Wikification", "Abstract": "Topic modeling analyzes a collection of documents to learn meaningful patterns of words.However, previous topic models consider only the spelling of words and do not take into consideration the polysemy of words.In this study, we incorporate the Wikipedia knowledge into a neural topic model to make it aware of named entities.We evaluate our method on two datasets, 1) news articles of New York Times and 2) the AIDA-CoNLL dataset.Our experiments show that our method improves the performance of neural topic models in generalizability.Moreover, we analyze frequent words in each topic and the temporal dependencies between topics to demonstrate that our entity-aware topic models can capture the time-series development of topics well."}
{"Title": "Wikimedia data for AI: a review of Wikimedia datasets for NLP tasks and AI-assisted editing", "Abstract": "Wikimedia content is used extensively by the AI community and within the language modeling community in particular. In this paper, we provide a review of the different ways in which Wikimedia data is curated to use in NLP tasks across pre-training, post-training, and model evaluations. We point to opportunities for greater use of Wikimedia content but also identify ways in which the language modeling community could better center the needs of Wikimedia editors. In particular, we call for incorporating additional sources of Wikimedia data, a greater focus on benchmarks for LLMs that encode Wikimedia principles, and greater multilingualism in Wikimedia-derived datasets."}
{"Title": "Blocks Architecture (BloArk): Efficient, Cost-Effective, and Incremental Dataset Architecture for Wikipedia Revision History", "Abstract": "Wikipedia (Wiki) is one of the most widely used and publicly available resources for natural language processing (NLP) applications. Wikipedia Revision History (WikiRevHist) shows the order in which edits were made to any Wiki page since its first modification. While the most up-to-date Wiki has been widely used as a training source, WikiRevHist can also be valuable resources for NLP applications. However, there are insufficient tools available to process WikiRevHist without having substantial computing resources, making additional customization, and spending extra time adapting others{'} works. Therefore, we report Blocks Architecture (BloArk), an efficiency-focused data processing architecture that reduces running time, computing resource requirements, and repeated works in processing WikiRevHist dataset. BloArk consists of three parts in its infrastructure: blocks, segments, and warehouses. On top of that, we build the core data processing pipeline: builder and modifier. The BloArk builder transforms the original WikiRevHist dataset from XML syntax into JSON Lines (JSONL) format for improving the concurrent and storage efficiency. The BloArk modifier takes previously-built warehouses to operate incremental modifications for improving the utilization of existing databases and reducing the cost of reusing others{'} works. In the end, BloArk can scale up easily in both processing Wikipedia Revision History and incrementally modifying existing dataset for downstream NLP use cases. The source code, documentations, and example usages are publicly available online and open-sourced under GPL-2.0 license."}
{"Title": "ARMADA: Attribute-Based Multimodal Data Augmentation", "Abstract": "In Multimodal Language Models (MLMs), the cost of manually annotating high-quality image-text pair data for fine-tuning and alignment is extremely high. While existing multimodal data augmentation frameworks propose ways to augment image-text pairs, they either suffer from semantic inconsistency between texts and images, or generate unrealistic images, causing knowledge gap with real world examples. To address these issues, we propose Attribute-based Multimodal Data Augmentation (ARMADA), a novel multimodal data augmentation method via knowledge-guided manipulation of visual attributes of the mentioned entities. Specifically, we extract entities and their visual attributes from the original text data, then search for alternative values for the visual attributes under the guidance of knowledge bases (KBs) and large language models (LLMs). We then utilize an image-editing model to edit the images with the extracted attributes. ARMADA is a novel multimodal data generation framework that: (i) extracts knowledge-grounded attributes from symbolic KBs for semantically consistent yet distinctive image-text pair generation, (ii) generates visually similar images of disparate categories using neighboring entities in the KB hierarchy, and (iii) uses the commonsense knowledge of LLMs to modulate auxiliary visual attributes such as backgrounds for more robust representation of original entities. Our empirical results over four downstream tasks demonstrate the efficacy of our framework to produce high-quality data and enhance the model performance. This also highlights the need to leverage external knowledge proxies for enhanced interpretability and real-world grounding."}
{"Title": "Summarization-Based Document IDs for Generative Retrieval with Language Models", "Abstract": "Generative retrieval (Wang et al., 2022; Tay et al., 2022) is a popular approach for end-to-end document retrieval that directly generates document identifiers given an input query. We introduce summarization-based document IDs, in which each document{'}s ID is composed of an extractive summary or abstractive keyphrases generated by a language model, rather than an integer ID sequence or bags of n-grams as proposed in past work. We find that abstractive, content-based IDs (ACID) and an ID based on the first 30 tokens are very effective in direct comparisons with previous approaches to ID creation. We show that using ACID improves top-10 and top-20 recall by 15.6{\\%} and 14.4{\\%} (relative) respectively versus the cluster-based integer ID baseline on the MSMARCO 100k retrieval task, and 9.8{\\%} and 9.9{\\%} respectively on the Wikipedia-based NQ 100k retrieval task. Our results demonstrate the effectiveness of human-readable, natural-language IDs created through summarization for generative retrieval. We also observed that extractive IDs outperformed abstractive IDs on Wikipedia articles in NQ but not the snippets in MSMARCO, which suggests that document characteristics affect generative retrieval performance."}
{"Title": "Findings of the WMT24 General Machine Translation Shared Task: The LLM Era Is Here but MT Is Not Solved Yet", "Abstract": "This overview paper presents the results of the General Machine Translation Task organised as part of the 2024 Conference on Machine Translation (WMT). In the general MT task, participants were asked to build machine translation systems for any of 11 language pairs, to be evaluated on test sets consisting of three to five different domains. In addition to participating systems, we collected translations from 8 different large language models (LLMs) and 4 online translation providers. We evaluate system outputs with professional human annotators using a new protocol called Error Span Annotations (ESA)."}
{"Title": "Are LLMs Breaking MT Metrics? Results of the WMT24 Metrics Shared Task", "Abstract": "The WMT24 Metrics Shared Task evaluated the performance of automatic metrics for machine translation (MT), with a major focus on LLM-based translations that were generated as part of the WMT24 General MT Shared Task. As LLMs become increasingly popular in MT, it is crucial to determine whether existing evaluation metrics can accurately assess the output of these systems.To provide a robust benchmark for this evaluation, human assessments were collected using Multidimensional Quality Metrics (MQM), continuing the practice from recent years. Furthermore, building on the success of the previous year, a challenge set subtask was included, requiring participants to design contrastive test suites that specifically target a metric{'}s ability to identify and penalize different types of translation errors.Finally, the meta-evaluation procedure was refined to better reflect real-world usage of MT metrics, focusing on pairwise accuracy at both the system- and segment-levels.We present an extensive analysis on how well metrics perform on three language pairs: English to Spanish (Latin America), Japanese to Chinese, and English to German. The results strongly confirm the results reported last year, that fine-tuned neural metrics continue to perform well, even when used to evaluate LLM-based translation systems."}
{"Title": "Findings of the Quality Estimation Shared Task at WMT 2024: Are LLMs Closing the Gap in QE?", "Abstract": "We report the results of the WMT 2024 shared task on Quality Estimation, in which the challenge is to predict the quality of the output of neural machine translation systems at the word and sentence levels, without access to reference translations. In this edition, we expanded our scope to assess the potential for quality estimates to help in the correction of translated outputs, hence including an automated post-editing (APE) direction. We publish new test sets with human annotations that target two directions: providing new Multidimensional Quality Metrics (MQM) annotations for three multi-domain language pairs (English to German, Spanish and Hindi) and extending the annotations on Indic languages providing direct assessments and post edits for translation from English into Hindi, Gujarati, Tamil and Telugu. We also perform a detailed analysis of the behaviour of different models with respect to different phenomena including gender bias, idiomatic language, and numerical and entity perturbations. We received submissions based both on traditional, encoder-based approaches as well as large language model (LLM) based ones."}
{"Title": "Findings of the WMT 2024 Shared Task of the Open Language Data Initiative", "Abstract": "We present the results of the WMT 2024 shared task of the Open Language Data Initiative. Participants were invited to contribute to the FLORES+ and MT Seed multilingual datasets, two foundational open resources that facilitate the organic expansion of language technology{'}s reach. We accepted ten submissions covering 16 languages, which extended the range of languages included in the datasets and improved the quality of existing data."}
{"Title": "Results of the WAT/WMT 2024 Shared Task on Patent Translation", "Abstract": "This paper presents the results of the patent translation shared task at the 11th Workshop on Asian Translation and 9th Conference on Machine Translation. Two teams participated in this task, and their submitted translation results for one or more of the six language directions were automatically and manually evaluated. The evaluation results demonstrate the strong performance of large language model-based systems from both participants."}
{"Title": "Findings of the WMT 2024 Biomedical Translation Shared Task: Test Sets on Abstract Level", "Abstract": "We present the results of the ninth edition of the Biomedical Translation Task at WMT{'}24. We released test sets for six language pairs, namely, French, German, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish, from and into English. Eachtest set consists of 50 abstracts from PubMed. Differently from previous years, we did not split abstracts into sentences. We received submissions from five teams, and for almost all language directions. We used a baseline/comparison system based on Llama 3.1 and share the source code at https://github.com/cgrozea/wmt24biomed-ref."}
{"Title": "MSLC24 Submissions to the General Machine Translation Task", "Abstract": "The MSLC (Metric Score Landscape Challenge) submissions for English-German, English-Spanish, and Japanese-Chinese are constrained systems built using Transformer models for the purpose of better evaluating metric performance in the WMT24 Metrics Task. They are intended to be representative of the performance of systems that can be built relatively simply using constrained data and with minimal modifications to the translation training pipeline."}
{"Title": "IOL Research Machine Translation Systems for WMT24 General Machine Translation Shared Task", "Abstract": "This paper illustrates the submission system of the IOL Research team for the WMT24 General Machine Translation shared task. We submitted translations for all translation directions in the general machine translation task. According to the official track categorization, our system qualifies as an open system due to the utilization of open-source resources in developing our machine translation model. With the growing prevalence of large language models (LLMs) as a conventional approach for managing diverse NLP tasks, we have developed our machine translation system by leveraging the capabilities of LLMs. Overall, we first performed continued pretraining using the open-source LLMs with tens of billions of parameters to enhance the model{'}s multilingual capabilities. Subsequently, we employed open-source Large Language Models, equipped with hundreds of billions of parameters, to generate synthetic data. This data was then blended with a modest quantity of additional open-source data for precise supervised fine-tuning. In the final stage, we also used ensemble learning to improve translation quality. Based on the official automated evaluation metrics, our system excelled by securing the top position in 8 out of the total 11 translation directions, spanning both open and constrained system categories."}
{"Title": "Choose the Final Translation from NMT and LLM Hypotheses Using MBR Decoding: HW-TSC's Submission to the WMT24 General MT Shared Task", "Abstract": "This paper presents the submission of Huawei Translate Services Center (HW-TSC) to the WMT24 general machine translation (MT) shared task, where we participate in the English to Chinese (en\u00e2\u0086\u0092zh) language pair. Similar to previous years{'} work, we use training strategies such as regularized dropout, bidirectional training, data diversification, forward translation, back translation, alternated training, curriculum learning, and transductive ensemble learning to train the neural machine translation (NMT) model based on the deep Transformer-big architecture. The difference is that we also use continue pre-training, supervised fine-tuning, and contrastive preference optimization to train the large language model (LLM) based MT model. By using Minimum Bayesian risk (MBR) decoding to select the final translation from multiple hypotheses for NMT and LLM-based MT models, our submission receives competitive results in the final evaluation."}
{"Title": "CycleGN: A Cycle Consistent Approach for Neural Machine Translation", "Abstract": "CycleGN is a fully self-supervised Neural Machine Translation framework relying on the Transformer architecture that does not require parallel data. Its approach is similar to a Discriminator-less CycleGAN, hence the {``}non-adversarial{''} name, specifically tailored for non-parallel text datasets. The foundational concept of our research posits that in an ideal scenario, retro-translations of generated translations should revert to the original source sentences. Consequently, a pair of models can be trained using a Cycle Consistency Loss (CCL) only, with one model translating in one direction and the second model in the opposite direction.In the context of this research, two sub-categories of non-parallel datasets are introduced. A {``}permuted{''} dataset is defined as a parallel dataset wherein the sentences of one language have been systematically rearranged. Consequently, this results in a non-parallel corpus where it is guaranteed that each sentence has a corresponding translation located at an unspecified index within the dataset. A {``}non-intersecting{''} dataset is a non-parallel dataset for which it is guaranteed that no sentence has an exact translation.Masked Language Modeling (MLM) is a pre-training strategy implemented in BERT, where a specified proportion of the input tokens are substituted with a unique {\\$}mask{\\$} token. The objective of the neural network under this paradigm is to accurately reconstruct the original sentence from this degraded input.In inference mode, Transformers are able to generate sentences without labels. Thus, the first step is to generate pseudo-labels in inference, that are then used as labels during training. However, the models consistently converge towards a trivial solution in which the input, the generated pseudo-labels and the output are identical, achieving an optimal outcome on the CCL function, registering a value of zero. CycleGN demonstrates how MLM pre-training can be leveraged to move away from this trivial path and perform actual text translation.As a contribution to the WMT24 challenge, this study explores the efficacy of the CycleGN architectural framework in learning translation tasks across eleven language pairs under the permuted condition and four under the non-intersecting condition. Moreover, two additional language pairs from the previous WMT edition were trained and the evaluations demonstrate the robust adaptability of CycleGN in learning translation tasks."}
{"Title": "UvA-MT's Participation in the WMT24 General Translation Shared Task", "Abstract": "Fine-tuning Large Language Models (FT-LLMs) with parallel data has emerged as a promising paradigm in recent machine translation research. In this paper, we explore the effectiveness of FT-LLMs and compare them to traditional encoder-decoder Neural Machine Translation (NMT) systems under the WMT24 general MT shared task for English to Chinese direction. We implement several techniques, including Quality Estimation (QE) data filtering, supervised fine-tuning, and post-editing that integrate NMT systems with LLMs. We demonstrate that fine-tuning LLaMA2 on a high-quality but relatively small bitext dataset (100K) yields COMET results comparable to much smaller encoder-decoder NMT systems trained on over 22 million bitexts. However, this approach largely underperforms on surface-level metrics like BLEU and ChrF. We further control the data quality using the COMET-based quality estimation method. Our experiments show that 1) filtering low COMET scores largely improves encoder-decoder systems, but 2) no clear gains are observed for LLMs when further refining the fine-tuning set. Finally, we show that combining NMT systems with LLMs via post-editing generally yields the best performance for the WMT24 official test set."}
{"Title": "Tower v2: Unbabel-IST 2024 Submission for the General MT Shared Task", "Abstract": "In this work, we present Tower v2, an improved iteration of the state-of-the-art open-weight Tower models, and the backbone of our submission to the WMT24 General Translation shared task. Tower v2 introduces key improvements including expanded language coverage, enhanced data quality, and increased model capacity up to 70B parameters. Our final submission combines these advancements with quality-aware decoding strategies, selecting translations based on multiple translation quality signals. The resulting system demonstrates significant improvement over previous versions, outperforming closed commercial systems like GPT-4o, Claude 3.5, and DeepL even at a smaller 7B scale."}
{"Title": "TSU HITS's Submissions to the WMT 2024 General Machine Translation Shared Task", "Abstract": "This paper describes the TSU HITS team{'}s submission system for the WMT{'}24 general translation task. We focused on exploring the capabilities of discrete diffusion models for the English-to-{Russian, German, Czech, Spanish} translation tasks in the constrained track. Our submission system consists of a set of discrete diffusion models for each language pair. The main advance is using a separate length regression model to determine the length of the output sequence more precisely."}
{"Title": "Document-level Translation with LLM Reranking: Team-J at WMT 2024 General Translation Task", "Abstract": "We participated in the constrained track for English-Japanese and Japanese-Chinese translations at the WMT 2024 General Machine Translation Task. Our approach was to generate a large number of sentence-level translation candidates and select the most probable translation using minimum Bayes risk (MBR) decoding and document-level large language model (LLM) re-ranking. We first generated hundreds of translation candidates from multiple translation models and retained the top 30 candidates using MBR decoding. In addition, we continually pre-trained LLMs on the target language corpora to leverage document-level information. We utilized LLMs to select the most probable sentence sequentially in context from the beginning of the document."}
{"Title": "DLUT and GTCOM's Neural Machine Translation Systems for WMT24", "Abstract": "This paper presents the submission from Global Tone Communication Co., Ltd. and Dalian University of Technology for the WMT24 shared general Machine Translation (MT) task at the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP). Our participation encompasses two language pairs: English to Japanese and Japanese to Chinese. The systems are developed without particular constraints or requirements, facilitating extensive research in machine translation. We emphasize back-translation, utilize multilingual translation models, and apply fine-tuning strategies to improve performance. Additionally, we integrate both human-generated and machine-generated data to fine-tune our models, leading to enhanced translation accuracy. The automatic evaluation results indicate that our system ranks first in terms of BLEU score for the Japanese to Chinese translation."}
{"Title": "CUNI at WMT24 General Translation Task: LLMs, (Q)LoRA, CPO and Model Merging", "Abstract": "This paper presents the contributions of Charles University teams to the WMT24 General Translation task (English to Czech, German and Russian, and Czech to Ukrainian), and the WMT24 Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain task.Our most elaborate submission, CUNI-MH for en2cs, is the result of fine-tuning Mistral 7B v0.1 for translation using a three-stage process: Supervised fine-tuning using QLoRA, Contrastive Preference Optimization, and merging of model checkpoints. We also describe the CUNI-GA, CUNI-Transformer and CUNI-DocTransformer submissions, which are based on our systems from the previous year.Our en2ru system CUNI-DS uses a similar first stage as CUNI-MH (QLoRA for en2cs) and follows with transferring to en2ru.For en2de (CUNI-NL), we experimented with a LLM-based speech translation system, to translate without the speech input.For the Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain task, we performed QLoRA fine-tuning of a large LLM on a small amount of synthetic (backtranslated) data."}
{"Title": "From General LLM to Translation: How We Dramatically Improve Translation Quality Using Human Evaluation Data for LLM Finetuning", "Abstract": "In this paper, we present the methodology employed by the NLP team at Yandex LLC for participating in the WMT 2024 General MT Translation track, focusing on English-to-Russian translation. Our approach involves training a YandexGPT LLM-based model for translation tasks using a multi-stage process to ensure high-quality and contextually accurate translations.Initially, we utilize a pre-trained model, trained on a large corpus of high-quality monolingual texts in various languages, crawled from various open sources, not limited to English and Russian. This extensive pre-training allows the model to capture a broad spectrum of linguistic nuances and structures. Following this, the model is fine-tuned on a substantial parallel corpus of high-quality texts collected from diverse open sources, including websites, books, and subtitles. These texts are meticulously aligned at both the sentence and paragraph levels to enhance the model{'}s contextual understanding and translation accuracy.In the subsequent stage, we employ p-tuning on an internal high-quality corpus of paragraph-aligned data. This step ensures that the model is finely adjusted to handle complex paragraph-level translations with greater fluency and coherence.Next, we apply the Contrastive Pretraining Objective (CPO) method, as described in the paper CPO, using a human-annotated translation corpus. This stage focuses on refining the model{'}s performance based on metrics evaluated at the paragraph level, emphasizing both the accuracy of the translation and the fluency of the resulting texts. The CPO method helps the model to better distinguish between subtle contextual differences, thereby improving translation quality.In the final stage, we address the importance of preserving the content structure in translations, which is crucial for the General MT test set. To achieve this, we introduce a synthetic corpus based on web pages and video subtitles, and use it during HE markup finetune training. This encourages the model to maintain the original text{'}s tag structure. This step ensures that the translated output retains the structural integrity of the source web pages, providing a seamless user experience.Our multi-stage approach, combining extensive pre-training, targeted fine-tuning, advanced p-tuning, and structure-preserving techniques, ensures that our model delivers high-quality, fluent, and structurally consistent translations suitable for practical applications and competitive benchmarks."}
{"Title": "Cogs in a Machine, Doing What They're Meant to Do \u2013 the AMI Submission to the WMT24 General Translation Task", "Abstract": "This paper presents the submission of the Arni Magnusson Institute{'}s team to the WMT24 General translation task. We work on the English\u00e2\u0086\u0092Icelandic translation direction. Our system comprises four translation models and a grammar correction model. For training our systems we carefully curate our datasets, aggressively filtering out sentence pairs that may detrimentally affect the quality of our systems output. Some of our data are collected from human translations and some are synthetically generated. A part of the synthetic data is generated using an LLM, and we find that it increases the translation capability of our system significantly."}
{"Title": "IKUN for WMT24 General MT Task: LLMs Are Here for Multilingual Machine Translation", "Abstract": "This paper introduces two multilingual systems, IKUN and IKUN-C, developed for the general machine translation task in WMT24. IKUN and IKUN-C represent an open system and a constrained system, respectively, built on Llama-3-8b and Mistral-7B-v0.3. Both systems are designed to handle all 11 language directions using a single model. According to automatic evaluation metrics, IKUN-C achieved 6 first-place and 3 second-place finishes among all constrained systems, while IKUN secured 1 first-place and 2 second-place finishes across both open and constrained systems. These encouraging results suggest that large language models (LLMs) are nearing the level of proficiency required for effective multilingual machine translation. The systems are based on a two-stage approach: first, continuous pre-training on monolingual data in 10 languages, followed by fine-tuning on high-quality parallel data for 11 language directions. The primary difference between IKUN and IKUN-C lies in their monolingual pre-training strategy. IKUN-C is pre-trained using constrained monolingual data, whereas IKUN leverages monolingual data from the OSCAR dataset. In the second phase, both systems are fine-tuned on parallel data sourced from NTREX, Flores, and WMT16-23 for all 11 language pairs."}
{"Title": "NTTSU at WMT2024 General Translation Task", "Abstract": "The NTTSU team{'}s submission leverages several large language models developed through a training procedure that includes continual pre-training and supervised fine-tuning. For paragraph-level translation, we generated synthetic paragraph-aligned data and utilized this data for training.In the task of translating Japanese to Chinese, we particularly focused on the speech domain translation. Specifically, we built Whisper models for Japanese automatic speech recognition (ASR). We used YODAS dataset for Whisper training. Since this data contained many noisy data pairs, we combined the Whisper outputs using ROVER for polishing the transcriptions. Furthermore, to enhance the robustness of the translation model against errors in the transcriptions, we performed data augmentation by forward translation from audio, using both ASR and base translation models.To select the best translation from multiple hypotheses of the models, we applied Minimum Bayes Risk decoding + reranking, incorporating scores such as COMET-QE, COMET, and cosine similarity by LaBSE."}
{"Title": "SCIR-MT's Submission for WMT24 General Machine Translation Task", "Abstract": "This paper introduces the submission of SCIR research center of Harbin Institute of Technology participating in the WMT24 machine translation evaluation task of constrained track for English to Czech. Our approach involved a rigorous process of cleaning and deduplicating both monolingual and bilingual data, followed by a three-stage model training recipe. During the testing phase, we used the beam serach decoding method to generate a large number of candidate translations. Furthermore, we employed COMET-MBR decoding to identify optimal translations."}
{"Title": "AIST AIRC Systems for the WMT 2024 Shared Tasks", "Abstract": "At WMT 2024 AIST AIRC participated in the General Machine Translation shared task and the Biomedical Translation task. We trained constrained track models for translation between English, German, and Japanese. Before training the final models, we first filtered the parallel data, then performed iterative back-translation as well as parallel data distillation. We experimented with training baseline Transformer models, Mega models, and fine-tuning open-source T5 and Gemma model checkpoints using the filtered parallel data. Our primary submissions contain translations from ensembles of two Mega model checkpoints and our contrastive submissions are generated by our fine-tuned T5 model checkpoints."}
{"Title": "Occiglot at WMT24: European Open-source Large Language Models Evaluated on Translation", "Abstract": "This document describes the submission of the very first version of the Occiglot open-source large language model to the General MT Shared Task of the 9th Conference of Machine Translation (WMT24). Occiglot is an open-source, community-based LLM based on Mistral-7B, which went through language-specific continual pre-training and subsequent instruction tuning, including instructions relevant to machine translation.We examine the automatic metric scores for translating the WMT24 test set and provide a detailed linguistically-motivated analysis.Despite Occiglot performing worse than many of the other system submissions, we observe that it performs better than Mistral7B, which has been based upon, which indicates the positive effect of the language specific continual-pretraining and instruction tuning. We see the submission of this very early version of the model as a motivation to unite community forces and pursue future LLM research on the translation task."}
{"Title": "CoST of breaking the LLMs", "Abstract": "This paper presents an evaluation of 16 machine translation systems submitted to the Shared Task of the 9th Conference of Machine Translation (WMT24) for the English-Hindi (en-hi) language pair using our Complex Structures Test (CoST) suite. Aligning with this year{'}s test suite sub-task theme, {``}Help us break LLMs{''}, we curated a comprehensive test suite encompassing diverse datasets across various categories, including autobiography, poetry, legal, conversation, play, narration, technical, and mixed genres. Our evaluation reveals that all the systems struggle significantly with the archaic style of text like legal and technical writings or text with creative twist like conversation and poetry datasets, highlighting their weaknesses in handling complex linguistic structures and stylistic nuances inherent in these text types. Our evaluation identifies the strengths and limitations of the submitted models, pointing to specific areas where further research and development are needed to enhance their performance. Our test suite is available at \\url{https://github.com/AnanyaCoder/CoST-WMT-24-Test-Suite-Task}."}
{"Title": "WMT24 Test Suite: Gender Resolution in Speaker-Listener Dialogue Roles", "Abstract": "We assess the difficulty of gender resolution in literary-style dialogue settings and the influence of gender stereotypes. Instances of the test suite contain spoken dialogue interleaved with external meta-context about the characters and the manner of speaking. We find that character and manner stereotypes outside of the dialogue significantly impact the gender agreement of referents within the dialogue."}
{"Title": "The GenderQueer Test Suite", "Abstract": "This paper introduces the GenderQueer Test Suite, an evaluation set for assessing machine translation (MT) systems{'} capabilities in handling gender-diverse and queer-inclusive content, focusing on English to Icelandic translation. The suite evaluates MT systems on various aspects of gender-inclusive translation, including pronoun and adjective agreement, LGBTQIA+ terminology, and the impact of explicit gender specifications.The 17 MT systems submitted to the WMT24 English-Icelandic track were evaluated. Key findings reveal significant performance differences between large language model-based systems (LLMs) and lightweight models in handling context for gender agreement. Challenges in translating the singular {``}they{''} were widespread, while most systems performed relatively well in translating LGBTQIA+ terminology. Accuracy in adjective gender agreement is quite low, with some models struggling particularly with the feminine form.This evaluation set contributes to the ongoing discussion about inclusive language in MT and natural language processing. By providing a tool for assessing MT systems{'} handling of gender-diverse content, it aims to enhance the inclusivity of language technology. The methodology and evaluation scripts are made available for adaptation to other languages, promoting further research in this area."}
{"Title": "Domain Dynamics: Evaluating Large Language Models in English-Hindi Translation", "Abstract": "Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive capabilities in machine translation, leveraging extensive pre-training on vast amounts of data. However, this generalist training often overlooks domain-specific nuances, leading to potential difficulties when translating specialized texts. In this study, we present a multi-domain test suite, collated from previously published datasets, designed to challenge and evaluate the translation abilities of LLMs. The test suite encompasses diverse domains such as judicial, education, literature (specifically religious texts), and noisy user-generated content from online product reviews and forums like Reddit. Each domain consists of approximately 250-300 sentences, carefully curated and randomized in the final compilation. This English-to-Hindi dataset aims to evaluate and expose the limitations of LLM-based translation systems, offering valuable insights into areas requiring further research and development. We have submitted the dataset to WMT24 Break the LLM subtask. In this paper, we present our findings. We have made the code and the dataset publicly available at \\url{https://github.com/sohamb37/wmt24-test-suite}"}
{"Title": "Investigating the Linguistic Performance of Large Language Models in Machine Translation", "Abstract": "This paper summarizes the results of our test suite evaluation on 39 machine translation systems submitted at the Shared Task of the Ninth Conference of Machine Translation (WMT24). It offers a fine-grained linguistic evaluation of machine translation outputs for English{--}German and English{--}Russian, resulting from significant manual linguistic effort. Based on our results, LLMs are inferior to NMT in English{--}German, both in overall scores and when translating specific linguistic phenomena, such as punctuation, complex future verb tenses, and stripping. LLMs show quite a competitive performance in English-Russian, although top-performing systems might struggle with some cases of named entities and terminology, function words, mediopassive voice, and semantic roles. Additionally, some LLMs generate very verbose or empty outputs, posing challenges to the evaluation process."}
{"Title": "IsoChronoMeter: A Simple and Effective Isochronic Translation Evaluation Metric", "Abstract": "Machine translation (MT) has come a long way and is readily employed in production systems to serve millions of users daily. With the recent advances in generative AI, a new form of translation is becoming possible - video dubbing. This work motivates the importance of isochronic translation, especially in the context of automatic dubbing, and introduces {`}IsoChronoMeter{'} (ICM). ICM is a simple yet effective metric to measure isochrony of translations in a scalable and resource-efficient way without the need for gold data, based on state-of-the-art text-to-speech (TTS) duration predictors. We motivate IsoChronoMeter and demonstrate its effectiveness. Using ICM we demonstrate the shortcomings of state-of-the-art translation systems and show the need for new methods. We release the code at this URL: \\url{https://github.com/braskai/isochronometer}."}
{"Title": "A Test Suite of Prompt Injection Attacks for LLM-based Machine Translation", "Abstract": "LLM-based NLP systems typically work by embedding their input data into prompt templates which contain instructions and/or in-context examples, creating queries which are submitted to a LLM, then parse the LLM response in order to generate the system outputs. Prompt Injection Attacks (PIAs) are a type of subversion of these systems where a malicious user crafts special inputs which interfer with the prompt templates, causing the LLM to respond in ways unintended by the system designer.Recently, Sun and Miceli-Barone (2024) proposed a class of PIAs against LLM-based machine translation. Specifically, the task is to translate questions from the TruthfulQA test suite, where an adversarial prompt is prepended to the questions, instructing the system to ignore the translation instruction and answer the questions instead.In this test suite we extend this approach to all the language pairs of the WMT 2024 General Machine Translation task. Moreover, we include additional attack formats in addition to the one originally studied."}
{"Title": "Killing Two Flies with One Stone: An Attempt to Break LLMs Using English-Icelandic Idioms and Proper Names", "Abstract": "The submission of the {\\'A}rni Magn{\\'u}sson Institute{'}s team to the WMT24 test suite subtask focuses on idiomatic expressions and proper names for the English\u00e2\u0086\u0092Icelandic translation direction. Intuitively and empirically, idioms and proper names are known to be a significant challenge for neural translation models. We create two different test suites. The first evaluates the competency of MT systems in translating common English idiomatic expressions, as well as testing whether systems can distinguish between those expressions and the same phrases when used in a literal context. The second test suite consists of place names that should be translated into their Icelandic exonyms (and correctly inflected) and pairs of Icelandic names that share a surface form between the male and female variants, so that incorrect translations impact meaning as well as readibility. The scores reported are relatively low, especially for idiomatic expressions and place names, and indicate considerable room for improvement."}
{"Title": "MetaMetrics-MT: Tuning Meta-Metrics for Machine Translation via Human Preference Calibration", "Abstract": "We present MetaMetrics-MT, an innovative metric designed to evaluate machine translation (MT) tasks by aligning closely with human preferences through Bayesian optimization with Gaussian Processes. MetaMetrics-MT enhances existing MT metrics by optimizing their correlation with human judgments. Our experiments on the WMT24 metric shared task dataset demonstrate that MetaMetrics-MT outperforms all existing baselines, setting a new benchmark for state-of-the-art performance in the reference-based setting. Furthermore, it achieves comparable results to leading metrics in the reference-free setting, offering greater efficiency."}
{"Title": "chrF-S: Semantics Is All You Need", "Abstract": "Machine translation (MT) evaluation metrics like BLEU and chrF++ are widely used reference-based metrics that do not require training and are language-independent. However, these metrics primarily focus on n-gram matching and often overlook semantic depth and contextual understanding. To address this gap, we introduce chrF-S (Semantic chrF++), an enhanced metric that integrates sentence embeddings to evaluate translation quality more comprehensively. By combining traditional character and word n-gram analysis with semantic information derived from embeddings, chrF-S captures both syntactic accuracy and sentence-level semantics. This paper presents our contributions to the WMT24 shared metrics task, showcasing our participation and the development of chrF-S. We also demonstrate that, according to preliminary results on the leaderboard, our metric performs on par with other supervised and LLM-based metrics. By merging semantic insights with n-gram precision, chrF-S offers a significant enhancement in the assessment of machine-generated translations, advancing the field of MT evaluation. Our code and data will be made available at \\url{https://github.com/AnanyaCoder/chrF-S}."}
{"Title": "MSLC24: Further Challenges for Metrics on a Wide Landscape of Translation Quality", "Abstract": "In this second edition of the Metric Score Landscape Challenge (MSLC), we examine how automatic metrics for machine translation perform on a wide variety of machine translation output, ranging from very low quality systems to the types of high-quality systems submitted to the General MT shared task at WMT. We also explore metric results on specific types of data, such as empty strings, wrong- or mixed-language text, and more. We raise several alarms about inconsistencies in metric scores, some of which can be resolved by increasingly explicit instructions for metric use, while others highlight technical flaws."}
{"Title": "MetricX-24: The Google Submission to the WMT 2024 Metrics Shared Task", "Abstract": "In this paper, we present the MetricX-24 submissions to the WMT24 Metrics Shared Task and provide details on the improvements we made over the previous version of MetricX. Our primary submission is a hybrid reference-based/-free metric, which can score a translation irrespective of whether it is given the source segment, the reference, or both. The metric is trained on previous WMT data in a two-stage fashion, first on the DA ratings only, then on a mixture of MQM and DA ratings. The training set in both stages is augmented with synthetic examples that we created to make the metric more robust to several common failure modes, such as fluent but unrelated translation, or undertranslation. We demonstrate the benefits of the individual modifications via an ablation study, and show a significant performance increase over MetricX-23 on the WMT23 MQM ratings, as well as our new synthetic challenge set."}
{"Title": "Evaluating WMT 2024 Metrics Shared Task Submissions on AfriMTE (the African Challenge Set)", "Abstract": "The AfriMTE challenge set from WMT 2024 Metrics Shared Task aims to evaluate the capabilities of evaluation metrics for machine translation on low-resource African languages, which primarily assesses cross-lingual transfer learning and generalization of machine translation metrics across a wide range of under-resourced languages. In this paper, we analyze the submissions to WMT 2024 Metrics Shared Task. Our findings indicate that language-specific adaptation, cross-lingual transfer learning, and larger language model sizes contribute significantly to improved metric performance. Moreover, supervised models with relatively moderate sizes demonstrate robust performance, when augmented with specific language adaptation for low-resource African languages. Finally, submissions show promising results for language pairs including Darija-French, English-Egyptian Arabic, and English-Swahili. However, significant challenges persist for extremely low-resource languages such as English-Luo and English-Twi, highlighting areas for future research and improvement in machine translation metrics for African languages."}
{"Title": "Machine Translation Metrics Are Better in Evaluating Linguistic Errors on LLMs than on Encoder-Decoder Systems", "Abstract": "This year{'}s MT metrics challenge set submission by DFKI expands on previous years{'} linguistically motivated challenge sets. It includes 137,000 items extracted from 100 MT systems for the two language directions (English to German, English to Russian), covering more than 100 linguistically motivated phenomena organized into 14 linguistic categories. The metrics with the statistically significant best performance in our linguistically motivated analysis are MetricX-24-Hybrid and MetricX-24 for English to German, and MetricX-24 for English to Russian. Metametrics and XCOMET are in the next ranking positions in both language pairs. Metrics are more accurate in detecting linguistic errors in translations by large language models (LLMs) than in translations based on the encoder-decoder neural machine translation (NMT) architecture. Some of the most difficult phenomena for the metrics to score are the transitive past progressive, multiple connectors, and the ditransitive simple future I for English to German, and pseudogapping, contact clauses, and cleft sentences for English to Russian. Despite its overall low performance, the LLM-based metric Gemba performs best in scoring German negation errors."}
{"Title": "TMU-HIT's Submission for the WMT24 Quality Estimation Shared Task: Is GPT-4 a Good Evaluator for Machine Translation?", "Abstract": "In machine translation quality estimation (QE), translation quality is evaluated automatically without the need for reference translations. This paper describes our contribution to the sentence-level subtask of Task 1 at the Ninth Machine Translation Conference (WMT24), which predicts quality scores for neural MT outputs without reference translations. We fine-tune GPT-4o mini, a large-scale language model (LLM), with limited data for QE.We report results for the direct assessment (DA) method for four language pairs: English-Gujarati (En-Gu), English-Hindi (En-Hi), English-Tamil (En-Ta), and English-Telugu (En-Te).Experiments under zero-shot, few-shot prompting, and fine-tuning settings revealed significantly low performance in the zero-shot, while fine-tuning achieved accuracy comparable to last year{'}s best scores. Our system demonstrated the effectiveness of this approach in low-resource language QE, securing 1st place in both En-Gu and En-Hi, and 4th place in En-Ta and En-Te."}
{"Title": "HW-TSC 2024 Submission for the Quality Estimation Shared Task", "Abstract": "Quality estimation (QE) is a crucial technique for evaluating the quality of machine translations without the need for reference translations. This paper focuses on Huawei Translation Services Center{'}s (HW-TSC{'}s) submission to the sentence-level QE shared task, named LLMs-enhanced-CrossQE. Our system builds upon the CrossQE architecture from our submission from last year, which consists of a multilingual base model and a task-specific downstream layer. The model input is a concatenation of the source and the translated sentences. To enhance performance, we fine-tuned and ensembled multiple base models, including XLM-R, InfoXLM, RemBERT, and CometKiwi. Specifically, we employed two pseudo-data generation methods: 1) a diverse pseudo-data generation method based on the corruption-based data augmentation technique introduced last year, and 2) a pseudo-data generation method that simulates machine translation errors using large language models (LLMs). Our results demonstrate that the system achieves outstanding performance on sentence-level QE test sets."}
{"Title": "HW-TSC's Participation in the WMT 2024 QEAPE Task", "Abstract": "The paper presents the submission by HW-TSC in the WMT 2024 Quality-informed Automatic Post Editing (QEAPE) shared task for the English-Hindi (En-Hi) and English-Tamil (En-Ta) language pair. We use LLM for En-Hi and Transformer for EN-ta respectively. For LLM, we first continue pertrain the Llama3, and then use the real APE data to SFT the pre-trained LLM. As for the transformer in En-Ta, we first pre-train a Machine Translation (MT) model by utilizing MT data collected from the web. Then, we fine-tune the model by employing real APE data.We also use the data augmentation method to enhance our model. Specifically, we incorporate candidate translations obtained from an external Machine Translation (MT) system.Given that APE systems tend to exhibit a tendency of {`}over-correction{'}, we employ a sentence-level Quality Estimation (QE) system to select the final output, deciding between the original translation and the corresponding output generated by the APE model. Our experiments demonstrate that pre-trained MT models are effective when being fine-tuned with the APE corpus of a limited size, and the performance can be further improved with external MT augmentation. our approach improves the HTER by -15.99 points and -0.47 points on En-Hi and En-Ta, respectively."}
{"Title": "Expanding the FLORES+ Multilingual Benchmark with Translations for Aragonese, Aranese, Asturian, and Valencian", "Abstract": "In this paper, we describe the process of creating the FLORES+ datasets for several Romance languages spoken in Spain, namely Aragonese, Aranese, Asturian, and Valencian. The Aragonese and Aranese datasets are entirely new additions to the FLORES+ multilingual benchmark. An initial version of the Asturian dataset was already available in FLORES+, and our work focused on a thorough revision. Similarly, FLORES+ included a Catalan dataset, which we adapted to the Valencian variety spoken in the Valencian Community. The development of the Aragonese, Aranese, and revised Asturian FLORES+ datasets was undertaken as part of a WMT24 shared task on translation into low-resource languages of Spain."}
{"Title": "The Bangla/Bengali Seed Dataset Submission to the WMT24 Open Language Data Initiative Shared Task", "Abstract": "We contribute a seed dataset for the Bangla/Bengali language as part of the WMT24 Open Language Data Initiative shared task. We validate the quality of the dataset against a mined and automatically aligned dataset (NLLBv1) and two other existing datasets of crowdsourced manual translations. The validation is performed by investigating the performance of state-of-the-art translation models fine-tuned on the different datasets after controlling for training set size. Machine translation models fine-tuned on our dataset outperform models tuned on the other datasets in both translation directions (English-Bangla and Bangla-English). These results confirm the quality of our dataset. We hope our dataset will support machine translation for the Bangla/Bengali community and related low-resource languages."}
{"Title": "A High-quality Seed Dataset for Italian Machine Translation", "Abstract": "This paper describes the submission of a high-quality translation of the OLDI Seed datasetinto Italian for the WMT 2023 Open LanguageData Initiative shared task.The base of this submission is a previous ver-sion of an Italian OLDI Seed dataset releasedby Haberland et al. (2024) via machine trans-lation and partial post-editing. This data wassubsequently reviewed in its entirety by twonative speakers of Italian, who carried out ex-tensive post-editing with particular attention tothe idiomatic translation of named entities."}
{"Title": "Correcting FLORES Evaluation Dataset for Four African Languages", "Abstract": "This paper describes the corrections made to the FLORES evaluation (dev and devtest) dataset for four African languages, namely Hausa, Northern Sotho (Sepedi), Xitsonga, and isiZulu. The original dataset, though groundbreaking in its coverage of low-resource languages, exhibited various inconsistencies and inaccuracies in the reviewed languages that could potentially hinder the integrity of the evaluation of downstream tasks in natural language processing (NLP), especially machine translation. Through a meticulous review process by native speakers, several corrections were identified and implemented, improving the dataset{'}s overall quality and reliability. For each language, we provide a concise summary of the errors encountered and corrected and also present some statistical analysis that measures the difference between the existing and corrected datasets. We believe that our corrections enhance the linguistic accuracy and reliability of the data and, thereby, contribute to a more effective evaluation of NLP tasks involving the four African languages. Finally, we recommend that future translation efforts, particularly in low-resource languages, prioritize the active involvement of native speakers at every stage of the process to ensure linguistic accuracy and cultural relevance."}
{"Title": "Expanding FLORES+ Benchmark for More Low-Resource Settings: Portuguese-Emakhuwa Machine Translation Evaluation", "Abstract": "As part of the Open Language Data Initiative shared tasks, we have expanded the FLORES+ evaluation set to include Emakhuwa, a low-resource language widely spoken in Mozambique. We translated the \\textit{dev} and \\textit{devtest} sets from Portuguese into Emakhuwa, and we detail the translation process and quality assurance measures used. Our methodology involved various quality checks, including post-editing and adequacy assessments. The resulting datasets consist of multiple reference sentences for each source. We present baseline results from training a Neural Machine Translation system and fine-tuning existing multilingual translation models. Our findings suggest that spelling inconsistencies remain a challenge in Emakhuwa. Additionally, the baseline models underperformed on this evaluation set, underscoring the necessity for further research to enhance machine translation quality for Emakhuwa.The data is publicly available at \\url{https://huggingface.co/datasets/LIACC/Emakhuwa-FLORES}"}
{"Title": "Enhancing Tuvan Language Resources through the FLORES Dataset", "Abstract": "FLORES is a benchmark dataset designed for evaluating machine translation systems, partic- ularly for low-resource languages. This paper, conducted as a part of Open Language Data Ini- tiative (OLDI) shared task, presents our contri- bution to expanding the FLORES dataset with high-quality translations from Russian to Tu- van, an endangered Turkic language. Our ap- proach combined the linguistic expertise of na- tive speakers to ensure both accuracy and cul- tural relevance in the translations. This project represents a significant step forward in support- ing Tuvan as a low-resource language in the realm of natural language processing (NLP) and machine translation (MT)."}
{"Title": "Machine Translation Evaluation Benchmark for Wu Chinese: Workflow and Analysis", "Abstract": "We introduce a FLORES+ dataset as an evaluation benchmark for modern Wu Chinese machine translation models and showcase its compatibility with existing Wu data. Wu Chinese is mutually unintelligible with other Sinitic languages such as Mandarin and Yue (Cantonese), but uses a set of Hanzi (Chinese characters) that profoundly overlaps with others. The population of Wu speakers is the second largest among languages in China, but the language has been suffering from significant drop in usage especially among the younger generations. We identify Wu Chinese as a textually low-resource language and address challenges for its machine translation models. Our contributions include: (1) an open-source, manually translated dataset, (2) full documentations on the process of dataset creation and validation experiments, (3) preliminary tools for Wu Chinese normalization and segmentation, and (4) benefits and limitations of our dataset, as well as implications to other low-resource languages."}
{"Title": "Open Language Data Initiative: Advancing Low-Resource Machine Translation for Karakalpak", "Abstract": "This study presents several contributions for the Karakalpak language: a FLORES+ devtest dataset translated to Karakalpak, parallel corpora for Uzbek-Karakalpak, Russian-Karakalpak and English-Karakalpak of 100,000 pairs each and open-sourced fine-tuned neural models for translation across these languages. Our experiments compare different model variants and training approaches, demonstrating improvements over existing baselines. This work, conducted as part of the Open Language Data Initiative (OLDI) shared task, aims to advance machine translation capabilities for Karakalpak and contribute to expanding linguistic diversity in NLP technologies."}
{"Title": "FLORES+ Translation and Machine Translation Evaluation for the Erzya Language", "Abstract": "This paper introduces a translation of the FLORES+ dataset into the endangered Erzya language, with the goal of evaluating machine translation between this language and any of the other 200 languages already included into FLORES+. This translation was carried out as a part of the Open Language Data shared task at WMT24. We also present a benchmark of existing translation models bases on this dataset and a new translation model that achieves the state-of-the-art quality of translation into Erzya from Russian and English."}
{"Title": "Spanish Corpus and Provenance with Computer-Aided Translation for the WMT24 OLDI Shared Task", "Abstract": "This paper presents the Seed-CAT submission to the WMT24 Open Language Data Initiative shared task. We detail our data collection method, which involves a computer-aided translation tool developed explicitly for translating Seed corpora. We release a professionally translated Spanish corpus and a provenance dataset documenting the translation process. The quality of the data was validated on the FLORES+ benchmark with English-Spanish neural machine translation models, achieving an average chrF++ score of 34.9."}
{"Title": "Efficient Terminology Integration for LLM-based Translation in Specialized Domains", "Abstract": "Traditional machine translation methods typically involve training models directly on large parallel corpora, with limited emphasis on specialized terminology. However, In specialized fields such as patents, finance, biomedical domains, terminology is crucial for translation, with many terminologies that should not be translated based on semantics of the sentence but should be translated following agreed-upon conventions. In this paper we introduce a methodology that efficiently trains models with a smaller amount of data while preserving the accuracy of terminology translation. The terminology extraction model generates a glossary from existing training datasets and further refines the LLM by instructing it to effectively incorporate these terms into translations. We achieve this through a systematic process of term extraction and glossary creation using the Trie Tree algorithm, followed by data reconstruction to teach the LLM how to integrate these specialized terms. This methodology enhances the model{'}s ability to handle specialized terminology and ensures high-quality translations, particularly in fields where term consistency is crucial. Our approach has demonstrated exceptional performance, achieving the highest translation score among participants in the WMT patent task to date, showcasing its effectiveness and broad applicability in specialized translation domains where general methods often fall short."}
{"Title": "Rakuten's Participation in WMT 2024 Patent Translation Task", "Abstract": "This paper introduces our machine transla- tion system (team sakura), developed for the 2024 WMT Patent Translation Task. Our sys- tem focuses on translations between Japanese- English, Japanese-Korean, and Japanese- Chinese. As large language models have shown good results for various natural language pro- cessing tasks, we have adopted the RakutenAI- 7B-chat model, which has demonstrated effec- tiveness in English and Japanese. We fine-tune this model with patent-domain parallel texts and translate using multiple prompts."}
{"Title": "The SETU-ADAPT Submission for WMT 24 Biomedical Shared Task", "Abstract": "This system description paper presents SETU-ADAPT{'}s submission to the WMT 2024 Biomedical Shared Task, where we participated for the language pairs English-to-French and English-to-German. Our approach focused on fine-tuning Large Language Models, using in-domain and synthetic data, employing different data augmentation and data retrieval strategies. We introduce a novel MT framework, involving three autonomous agents: a Translator Agent, an Evaluator Agent and a Reviewer Agent. We present our findings and report the quality of the outputs."}
{"Title": "Findings of WMT 2024 Shared Task on Low-Resource Indic Languages Translation", "Abstract": "This paper presents the results of the low-resource Indic language translation task, organized in conjunction with the Ninth Conference on Machine Translation (WMT) 2024. In this edition, participants were challenged to develop machine translation models for four distinct language pairs: English{--}Assamese, English-Mizo, English-Khasi, and English-Manipuri. The task utilized the enriched IndicNE-Corp1.0 dataset, which includes an extensive collection of parallel and monolingual corpora for northeastern Indic languages. The evaluation was conducted through a comprehensive suite of automatic metrics{---}BLEU, TER, RIBES, METEOR, and ChrF{---}supplemented by meticulous human assessment to measure the translation systems{'} performance and accuracy. This initiative aims to drive advancements in low-resource machine translation and make a substantial contribution to the growing body of knowledge in this dynamic field."}
{"Title": "Findings of WMT 2024's MultiIndic22MT Shared Task for Machine Translation of 22 Indian Languages", "Abstract": "This paper presents the findings of the WMT 2024{'}s MultiIndic22MT Shared Task, focusing on Machine Translation (MT) of 22 Indian Languages. In this task, we challenged participants with building MT systems which could translate between any or all of 22 Indian languages in the 8th schedule of the Indian constitution and English. For evaluation, we focused on automatic metrics, namely, chrF, chrF++ and BLEU."}
{"Title": "Findings of WMT2024 English-to-Low Resource Multimodal Translation Task", "Abstract": "This paper presents the results of the English-to-Low Resource Multimodal Translation shared tasks from the Ninth Conference on Machine Translation (WMT2024). This year, 7 teams submitted their translation results for the automatic and human evaluation."}
{"Title": "Findings of the WMT 2024 Shared Task Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain: Blending Rule-Based and Neural Systems", "Abstract": "This paper presents the results of the Ninth Conference on Machine Translation (WMT24) Shared Task {``}Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain{''}{'}. The task focused on the development of machine translation systems for three language pairs: Spanish-Aragonese, Spanish-Aranese, and Spanish-Asturian. 17 teams participated in the shared task with a total of 87 submissions. The baseline system for all language pairs was Apertium, a rule-based machine translation system that still performs competitively well, even in an era dominated by more advanced non-symbolic approaches. We report and discuss the results of the submitted systems, highlighting the strengths of both neural and rule-based approaches."}
{"Title": "Findings of the WMT 2024 Shared Task on Discourse-Level Literary Translation", "Abstract": "Translating literary works has perennially stood as an elusive dream in machine translation (MT), a journey steeped in intricate challenges. To foster progress in this domain, we hold a new shared task at WMT 2023, the second edition of the \\textit{ Discourse-Level Literary Translation}. First, we (Tencent AI Lab and China Literature Ltd.) release a copyrighted and document-level Chinese-English web novel corpus. Furthermore, we put forth an industry-endorsed criteria to guide human evaluation process. This year, we totally received 10 submissions from 5 academia and industry teams. We employ both automatic and human evaluations to measure the performance of the submitted systems. The official ranking of the systems is based on the overall human judgments. In addition, our extensive analysis reveals a series of interesting findings on literary and discourse-aware MT. We release data, system outputs, and leaderboard at \\url{https://www2.statmt.org/wmt24/literary-translation-task.html}."}
{"Title": "Findings of the WMT 2024 Shared Task on Chat Translation", "Abstract": "This paper presents the findings from the third edition of the Chat Translation Shared Task. As with previous editions, the task involved translating bilingual customer support conversations, specifically focusing on the impact of conversation context in translation quality and evaluation. We also include two new language pairs: English-Korean and English-Dutch, in addition to the set of language pairs from previous editions: English-German, English-French, and English-Brazilian Portuguese.We received 22 primary submissions and 32 contrastive submissions from eight teams, with each language pair having participation from at least three teams. We evaluated the systems comprehensively using both automatic metrics and human judgments via a direct assessment framework.The official rankings for each language pair were determined based on human evaluation scores, considering performance in both translation directions{---}agent and customer. Our analysis shows that while the systems excelled at translating individual turns, there is room for improvement in overall conversation-level translation quality."}
{"Title": "Findings of the WMT 2024 Shared Task on Non-Repetitive Translation", "Abstract": "The repetition of words in an English sentence can create a monotonous or awkward impression. In such cases, repetition should be avoided appropriately. To evaluate the performance of machine translation (MT) systems in avoiding such repetition and outputting more polished translations, we presented the shared task of controlling the lexical choice of MT systems. From Japanese{--}English parallel news articles, we collected several hundred sentence pairs in which the source sentences containing repeated words were translated in a style that avoided repetition. Participants were required to encourage the MT system to output tokens in a non-repetitive manner while maintaining translation quality. We conducted human and automatic evaluations of systems submitted by two teams based on an encoder-decoder Transformer and a large language model, respectively. From the experimental results and analysis, we report a series of findings on this task."}
{"Title": "A3-108 Controlling Token Generation in Low Resource Machine Translation Systems", "Abstract": "Translating for languages with limited resources poses a persistent challenge due to the scarcity of high-quality training data. To enhance translation accuracy, we explored controlled generation mechanisms, focusing on the importance of control tokens. In our experiments, while training, we encoded the target sentence length as a control token to the source sentence, treating it as an additional feature for the source sentence. We developed various NMT models using transformer architecture and conducted experiments across 8 language directions (English = Assamese, Manipuri, Khasi, and Mizo), exploring four variations of length encoding mechanisms. Through comparative analysis against the baseline model, we submitted two systems for each language direction. We report our findings for the same in this work."}
{"Title": "Samsung R&D Institute Philippines @ WMT 2024 Indic MT Task", "Abstract": "This paper presents the methodology developed by the Samsung R{\\&}D Institute Philippines (SRPH) Language Intelligence Team (LIT) for the WMT 2024 Shared Task on Low-Resource Indic Language Translation. We trained standard sequence-to-sequence Transformer models from scratch for both English-to-Indic and Indic-to-English translation directions. Additionally, we explored data augmentation through backtranslation and the application of noisy channel reranking to improve translation quality. A multilingual model trained across all language pairs was also investigated. Our results demonstrate the effectiveness of the multilingual model, with significant performance improvements observed in most language pairs, highlighting the potential of shared language representations in low-resource translation scenarios."}
{"Title": "DLUT-NLP Machine Translation Systems for WMT24 Low-Resource Indic Language Translation", "Abstract": "This paper describes the submission systems of DLUT-NLP team for the WMT24 low-resource Indic language translation shared task. We participated in the translation task of four language pairs, including en-as, en-mz, en-kha, en-mni."}
{"Title": "SRIB-NMT's Submission to the Indic MT Shared Task in WMT 2024", "Abstract": "In the context of the Indic Low Resource Ma-chine Translation (MT) challenge at WMT-24, we participated in four language pairs:English-Assamese (en-as), English-Mizo (en-mz), English-Khasi (en-kh), and English-Manipuri (en-mn). To address these tasks,we employed a transformer-based sequence-to-sequence architecture (Vaswani et al., 2017).In the PRIMARY system, which did not uti-lize external data, we first pretrained languagemodels (low resource languages) using avail-able monolingual data before finetuning themon small parallel datasets for translation. Forthe CONTRASTIVE submission approach, weutilized pretrained translation models like In-dic Trans2 (Gala et al., 2023) and appliedLoRA Fine-tuning (Hu et al., 2021) to adaptthem to smaller, low-resource languages, aim-ing to leverage cross-lingual language transfercapabilities (CONNEAU and Lample, 2019).These approaches resulted in significant im-provements in SacreBLEU scores(Post, 2018)for low-resource languages."}
{"Title": "MTNLP-IIITH: Machine Translation for Low-Resource Indic Languages", "Abstract": "Machine Translation for low-resource languages presents significant challenges, primarily due to limited data availability. We have a baseline model and a primary model. For the baseline model, we first fine-tune the mBART model (mbart-large-50-many-to-many-mmt) for the language pairs English-Khasi, Khasi-English, English-Manipuri, and Manipuri-English. We then augment the dataset by back-translating from Indic languages to English. To enhance data quality, we fine-tune the LaBSE model specifically for Khasi and Manipuri, generating sentence embeddings and applying a cosine similarity threshold of 0.84 to filter out low-quality back-translations. The filtered data is combined with the original training data and used to further fine-tune the mBART model, creating our primary model. The results show that the primary model slightly outperforms the baseline model, with the best performance achieved by the English-to-Khasi (en-kh) primary model, which recorded a BLEU score of 0.0492, a chrF score of 0.3316, and a METEOR score of 0.2589 (on a scale of 0 to 1), with similar results for other language pairs."}
{"Title": "Exploration of the CycleGN Framework for Low-Resource Languages", "Abstract": "CycleGN is a Neural Machine Translation framework relying on the Transformer architecture. The foundational concept of our research posits that in an ideal scenario, retro-translations of generated translations should revert to the original source sentences. Consequently, a pair of models can be trained using a Cycle Consistency Loss only, with one model translating in one direction and the second model in the opposite direction."}
{"Title": "The SETU-ADAPT Submissions to the WMT24 Low-Resource Indic Language Translation Task", "Abstract": "This paper presents the SETU-ADAPT{'}s submissions to the WMT 2024 Low-Resource Indic Language Translation task. We participated in the unconstrained segment of the task, focusing on the Assamese-to-English and English-to-Assamese language pairs. Our approach involves leveraging Large Language Models (LLMs) as the baseline systems for all our MT tasks. Furthermore, we applied various strategies to improve the baseline systems. In our first approach, we fine-tuned LLMs using all the data provided by the task organisers. Our second approach explores in-context learning by focusing on few-shot prompting. In our final approach we explore an efficient data extraction technique based on a fuzzy match-based similarity measure for fine-tuning. We evaluated our systems using BLEU, chrF, WER, and COMET. The experimental results showed that our strategies can effectively improve the quality of translations in low-resource scenarios."}
{"Title": "SPRING Lab IITM's Submission to Low Resource Indic Language Translation Shared Task", "Abstract": "We develop a robust translation model for four low-resource Indic languages: Khasi, Mizo, Manipuri, and Assamese. Our approach includes a comprehensive pipeline from data collection and preprocessing to training and evaluation, leveraging data from WMT task datasets, BPCC, PMIndia, and OpenLanguageData. To address the scarcity of bilingual data, we use back-translation techniques on monolingual datasets for Mizo and Khasi, significantly expanding our training corpus. We fine-tune the pre-trained NLLB 3.3B model for Assamese, Mizo, and Manipuri, achieving improved performance over the baseline. For Khasi, which is not supported by the NLLB model, we introduce special tokens and train the model on our Khasi corpus. Our training involves masked language modelling, followed by fine-tuning for English-to-Indic and Indic-to-English translations."}
{"Title": "Machine Translation Advancements of Low-Resource Indian Languages by Transfer Learning", "Abstract": "This paper introduces the submission by Huawei Translation Center (HW-TSC) to the WMT24 Indian Languages Machine Translation (MT) Shared Task. To develop a reliable machine translation system for low-resource Indian languages, we employed two distinct knowledge transfer strategies, taking into account the characteristics of the language scripts and the support available from existing open-source models for Indian languages. For Assamese(as) and Manipuri(mn), we fine-tuned the existing IndicTrans2 open-source model to enable bidirectional translation between English and these languages. For Khasi(kh) and Mizo(mz), we trained a multilingual model as the baseline using bilingual data from this four language pairs as well as additional Bengali data, which share the same language family. This was followed by fine-tuning to achieve bidirectional translation between English and Khasi, as well as English and Mizo. Our transfer learning experiments produced significant results: 23.5 BLEU for en\u00e2\u0086\u0092as, 31.8 BLEU for en\u00e2\u0086\u0092mn, 36.2 BLEU for as\u00e2\u0086\u0092en, and 47.9 BLEU for mn\u00e2\u0086\u0092en on their respective test sets. Similarly, the multilingual model transfer learning experiments yielded impressive outcomes, achieving 19.7 BLEU for en\u00e2\u0086\u0092kh, 32.8 BLEU for en\u00e2\u0086\u0092mz, 16.1 BLEU for kh\u00e2\u0086\u0092en, and 33.9 BLEU for mz\u00e2\u0086\u0092en on their respective test sets. These results not only highlight the effectiveness of transfer learning techniques for low-resource languages but also contribute to advancing machine translation capabilities for low-resource Indian languages."}
{"Title": "NLIP_Lab-IITH Low-Resource MT System for WMT24 Indic MT Shared Task", "Abstract": "In this paper, we describe our system for the WMT 24 shared task of Low-Resource Indic Language Translation. We consider eng\u00e2\u0086\u0094{as, kha, lus, mni} as participating language pairs. In this shared task, we explore the fine-tuning of a pre-trained model motivated by the pre-trained objective of aligning embeddings closer by alignment augmentation (Lin et al.,2020) for 22 scheduled Indian languages. Our primary system is based on language-specific finetuning on a pre-trained model. We achieve chrF2 scores of 50.6, 42.3, 54.9, and 66.3 on the official public test set for eng\u00e2\u0086\u0092as, eng\u00e2\u0086\u0092kha, eng\u00e2\u0086\u0092lus, eng\u00e2\u0086\u0092mni respectively. We also explore multilingual training with/without language grouping and layer-freezing."}
{"Title": "Yes-MT's Submission to the Low-Resource Indic Language Translation Shared Task in WMT 2024", "Abstract": "This paper presents the systems submitted by the Yes-MT team for the Low-Resource Indic Language Translation Shared Task at WMT 2024, focusing on translating between English and the Assamese, Mizo, Khasi, and Manipuri languages. The experiments explored various approaches, including fine-tuning pre-trained models like mT5 and IndicBart in both Multilingual and Monolingual settings, LoRA finetune IndicTrans2, zero-shot and few-shot prompting with large language models (LLMs) like Llama 3 and Mixtral 8x7b, LoRA Supervised Fine Tuning Llama 3, and training Transformers from scratch. The results were evaluated on the WMT23 Low-Resource Indic Language Translation Shared Task{'}s test data using SacreBLEU and CHRF highlighting the challenges of low-resource translation and show the potential of LLMs for these tasks, particularly with fine-tuning."}
{"Title": "System Description of BV-SLP for Sindhi-English Machine Translation in MultiIndic22MT 2024 Shared Task", "Abstract": "This paper presents our machine translation system that was developed for the WAT2024 MultiInidc MT shared task. We built our system for the Sindhi-English language pair. We developed two MT systems. The first system was our baseline system where Sindhi was translated into English. In the second system we used Hindi as a pivot for the translation of text. In both the cases we had identified the name entities and translated them into English as a preprocessing step. Once this was done, the standard NMT process was followed to train and generate MT outputs for the task. The systems were tested on the hidden dataset of the shared task"}
{"Title": "WMT24 System Description for the MultiIndic22MT Shared Task on Manipuri Language", "Abstract": "This paper presents a Transformer-based Neural Machine Translation (NMT) system developed by the Centre for Natural Language Processing and the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the National Institute of Technology Silchar, India (NITS-CNLP) for the MultiIndic22MT 2024 Shared Task. The system focused on the English-Manipuri language pair for the WMT24 shared task. The proposed WMT system shows a BLEU score of 6.4, a chrF score of 28.6, and a chrF++ score of 26.6 on the public test set Indic-Conv dataset. Further, in the public test set Indic-Gen dataset, it achieved a BLEU score of 8.1, a chrF score of 32.1, and a chrF++ score of 29.4 on the English-to-Manipuri translation."}
{"Title": "NLIP-Lab-IITH Multilingual MT System for WAT24 MT Shared Task", "Abstract": "This paper describes NLIP Lab{'}s multilingual machine translation system for the WAT24 shared task on multilingual Indic MT task for 22 scheduled languages belonging to 4 language families. We explore pre-training for Indic languages using alignment agreement objectives. We utilize bi-lingual dictionaries to substitute words from source sentences. Furthermore, we fine-tuned language direction-specific multilingual translation models using small and high-quality seed data. Our primary submission is a 243M parameters multilingual translation model covering 22 Indic languages. In the IN22-Gen benchmark, we achieved an average chrF++ score of 46.80 and 18.19 BLEU score for the En-Indic direction. In the Indic-En direction, we achieved an average chrF++ score of 56.34 and 30.82 BLEU score. In the In22-Conv benchmark, we achieved an average chrF++ score of 43.43 and BLEU score of 16.58 in the En-Indic direction, and in the Indic-En direction, we achieved an average of 52.44 and 29.77 for chrF++ and BLEU respectively. Our model is competitive with IndicTransv1 (474M parameter model)."}
{"Title": "DCU ADAPT at WMT24: English to Low-resource Multi-Modal Translation Task", "Abstract": "This paper presents the system description of {``}DCU{\\_}NMT{'}s{''} submission to the WMT-WAT24 English-to-Low-Resource Multimodal Translation Task. We participated in the English-to-Hindi track, developing both text-only and multimodal neural machine translation (NMT) systems. The text-only systems were trained from scratch on constrained data and augmented with back-translated data. For the multimodal approach, we implemented a context-aware transformer model that integrates visual features as additional contextual information. Specifically, image descriptions generated by an image captioning model were encoded using BERT and concatenated with the textual input.The results indicate that our multimodal system, trained solely on limited data, showed improvements over the text-only baseline in both the challenge and evaluation sets, suggesting the potential benefits of incorporating visual information."}
{"Title": "English-to-Low-Resource Translation: A Multimodal Approach for Hindi, Malayalam, Bengali, and Hausa", "Abstract": "Multimodal machine translation leverages multiple data modalities to enhance translation quality, particularly for low-resourced languages. This paper uses a Multimodal model that integrates visual information with textual data to improve translation accuracy from English to Hindi, Malayalam, Bengali, and Hausa. This approach employs a gated fusion mechanism to effectively combine the outputs of textual and visual encoders, enabling more nuanced translations that consider both language and contextual visual cues. The performance of the multimodal model was evaluated against the text-only machine translation model based on BLEU, ChrF2 and TER. Experimental results demonstrate that the multimodal approach consistently outperforms the text-only baseline, highlighting the potential of integrating visual information in low-resourced language translation tasks."}
{"Title": "OdiaGenAI's Participation in WMT2024 English-to-Low Resource Multimodal Translation Task", "Abstract": "This paper covers the system description of the team {``}ODIAGEN{'}s{''} submission to the WMT{\\textasciitilde}2024 English-to-Low-Resource Multimodal Translation Task. We participated in the English-to-Low Resource Multimodal Translation Task, in two of the tasks, i.e. Text-only Translation and Multi-modal Translation. For Text-only Translation, we trained the Mistral-7B model for English to Multi-lingual (Hindi, Bengali, Malayalam, Hausa). For Multi-modal Translation (using both image and text), we trained the PaliGemma-3B model for English to Hindi translation."}
{"Title": "Arewa NLP's Participation at WMT24", "Abstract": "This paper presents the work of our team, {``}ArewaNLP,{''} for the WMT 2024 shared task. The paper describes the system submitted to the Ninth Conference on Machine Translation (WMT24). We participated in the English-Hausa text-only translation task. We fine-tuned the OPUS-MT-en-ha transformer model and our submission achieved competitive results in this task. We achieve a BLUE score of 27.76, 40.31 and 5.85 on the Development Test, Evaluation Test and Challenge Test respectively."}
{"Title": "Multimodal Machine Translation for Low-Resource Indic Languages: A Chain-of-Thought Approach Using Large Language Models", "Abstract": "This paper presents the approach and results of team v036 in the English-to-Low-Resource Multi-Modal Translation Task at the Ninth Conference on Machine Translation (WMT24). Our team tackled the challenge of translating English source text to low-resource Indic languages, specifically Hindi, Malayalam, and Bengali, while leveraging visual context provided alongside the text data. We used InternVL2 for extracting the image context along with Knowledge Distillation from bigger LLMs to train Small Language Model on the tranlsation task. During current shared task phase, we submitted best models (for this task), and overall we got rank 3 on Hindi, Bengali, and Malyalam datasets. We also open source our models on huggingface."}
{"Title": "Chitranuvad: Adapting Multi-lingual LLMs for Multimodal Translation", "Abstract": "In this work, we provide the system description of our submission as part of the English-to-Lowres Multimodal Translation Task at theWorkshop on Asian Translation (WAT2024). We introduce Chitranuvad, a multimodal model that effectively integrates Multilingual LLMand a vision module for Multimodal Translation. Our method uses a ViT image encoder to extract visual representations as visual tokenembeddings which are projected to the LLM space by an adapter layer and generates translation in an autoregressive fashion. We participated in all the three tracks (Image Captioning, Text-only and Multimodal translationtasks) for Indic languages (ie. English translation to Hindi, Bengali and Malyalam) and achieved SOTA results for Hindi in all of themon the Challenge set while remaining competitive for the other languages in the shared task."}
{"Title": "Brotherhood at WMT 2024: Leveraging LLM-Generated Contextual Conversations for Cross-Lingual Image Captioning", "Abstract": "In this paper, we describe our system under the team name Brotherhood for the English-to-Lowres Multi-Modal Translation Task. We participate in the multi-modal translation tasks for English-Hindi, English-Hausa, English-Bengali, and English-Malayalam language pairs. We present a method leveraging multi-modal Large Language Models (LLMs), specifically GPT-4o and Claude 3.5 Sonnet, to enhance cross-lingual image captioning without traditional training or fine-tuning.Our approach utilizes instruction-tuned prompting to generate rich, contextual conversations about cropped images, using their English captions as additional context. These synthetic conversations are then translated into the target languages. Finally, we employ a weighted prompting strategy, balancing the original English caption with the translated conversation to generate captions in the target language.This method achieved competitive results, scoring 37.90 BLEU on the English-Hindi Challenge Set and ranking first and second for English-Hausa on the Challenge and Evaluation Leaderboards, respectively. We conduct additional experiments on a subset of 250 images, exploring the trade-offs between BLEU scores and semantic similarity across various weighting schemes."}
{"Title": "TIM-UNIGE Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain for WMT24", "Abstract": "We present the results of our constrained submission to the WMT 2024 shared task, which focuses on translating from Spanish into two low-resource languages of Spain: Aranese (spa-arn) and Aragonese (spa-arg). Our system integrates real and synthetic data generated by large language models (e.g., BLOOMZ) and rule-based Apertium translation systems. Built upon the pre-trained NLLB system, our translation model utilizes a multistage approach, progressively refining the initial model through the sequential use of different datasets, starting with large-scale synthetic or crawled data and advancing to smaller, high-quality parallel corpora. This approach resulted in BLEU scores of 30.1 for Spanish to Aranese and 61.9 for Spanish to Aragonese."}
{"Title": "TAN-IBE Participation in the Shared Task: Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain", "Abstract": "This paper describes the systems presented by the TAN-IBE team into the WMT24 Shared task Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain. The aim of this joint task was to train systems for Spanish-Asturian, Spanish-Aragonese and Spanish-Aranesian. Our team presented systems for all three language pairs and for two types of submission: for Spanish-Aragonese and Spanish-Aranese we participated with constrained submissions, and for Spanish-Asturian with an open submission."}
{"Title": "Enhaced Apertium System: Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain Spanish\u2013Asturian", "Abstract": "We present the Spanish{--}Asturian Apertium translation system, which has been enhanced and refined by our team of linguists for the shared task: Low Resource Languages of Spain of this WMT24 under the closed submission. While our system did not rank among the top 10 in terms of results, we believe that Apertium{'}s translations are of a commendable standard and demonstrate competitiveness with respect to the other systems."}
{"Title": "Universitat d'Alacant's Submission to the WMT 2024 Shared Task on Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain", "Abstract": "This paper describes the submissions of the Transducens group of the Universitat d{'}Alacant to the WMT 2024 Shared Task on Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain; in particular, the task focuses on the translation from Spanish into Aragonese, Aranese and Asturian. Our submissions use parallel and monolingual data to fine-tune the NLLB-1.3B model and to investigate the effectiveness of synthetic corpora and transfer-learning between related languages such as Catalan, Galician and Valencian. We also present a many-to-many multilingual neural machine translation model focused on the Romance languages of Spain."}
{"Title": "Samsung R&D Institute Philippines @ WMT 2024 Low-resource Languages of Spain Shared Task", "Abstract": "This paper details the submission of Samsung R{\\&}D Institute Philippines (SRPH) Language Intelligence Team (LIT) to the WMT 2024 Low-resource Languages of Spain shared task. We trained translation models for Spanish to Aragonese, Spanish to Aranese/Occitan, and Spanish to Asturian using a standard sequence-to-sequence Transformer architecture, augmenting it with a noisy-channel reranking strategy to select better outputs during decoding. For Spanish to Asturian translation, our method reaches comparable BLEU scores to a strong commercial baseline translation system using only constrained data, backtranslations, noisy channel reranking, and a shared vocabulary spanning all four languages."}
{"Title": "Back to the Stats: Rescuing Low Resource Neural Machine Translation with Statistical Methods", "Abstract": "This paper describes our submission to the WMT24 shared task for Low-Resource Languages of Spain in the Constrained task category. Due to the lack of deep learning-based data filtration methods for these languages, we propose a purely statistical-based, two-stage pipeline for data filtration. In the primary stage, we begin by removing spaces and punctuation from the source sentences (Spanish) and deduplicating them. We then filter out sentence pairs with inconsistent language predictions by the language identification model, followed by the removal of pairs with anomalous sentence length and word count ratios, using the development set statistics as the threshold. In the secondary stage, for corpora of significant size, we employ a Jensen Shannon divergence-based method to curate training data of the desired size. Our filtered data allowed us to complete a two-step training process in under 3 hours, with GPU power consumption kept below 1 kWh, making our system both economical and eco-friendly. The source code, training data, and best models are available on the project{'}s GitHub page."}
{"Title": "Hybrid Distillation from RBMT and NMT: Helsinki-NLP's Submission to the Shared Task on Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain", "Abstract": "The Helsinki-NLP team participated in the 2024 Shared Task on Translation into Low-Resource languages of Spain with four multilingual systems covering all language pairs. The task consists in developing Machine Translation (MT) models to translate from Spanish into Aragonese, Aranese and Asturian. Our models leverage known approaches for multilingual MT, namely, data filtering, fine-tuning, data tagging, and distillation. We use distillation to merge the knowledge from neural and rule-based systems and explore the trade-offs between translation quality and computational efficiency. We demonstrate that our distilled models can achieve competitive results while significantly reducing computational costs. Our best models ranked 4th, 5th, and 2nd in the open submission track for Spanish{--}Aragonese, Spanish{--}Aranese, and Spanish{--}Asturian, respectively. We release our code and data publicly at https://github.com/Helsinki-NLP/lowres-spain-st."}
{"Title": "Robustness of Fine-Tuned LLMs for Machine Translation with Varying Noise Levels: Insights for Asturian, Aragonese and Aranese", "Abstract": "We present the LCT-LAP proposal for the shared task on Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain at WMT24 within the constrained submission category. Our work harnesses encoder-decoder models pretrained on higher-resource Iberian languages to facilitate MT model training for Asturian, Aranese and Aragonese. Furthermore, we explore the robustness of these models when fine-tuned on datasets with varying levels of alignment noise. We fine-tuned a Spanish-Galician model using Asturian data filtered by BLEU score thresholds of 5, 15, 30 and 60, identifying BLEU 15 as the most effective. This threshold was then applied to the Aranese and Aragonese datasets. Our findings indicate that filtering the corpora reduces computational costs and improves performance compared to using nearly raw data or data filtered with language identification. However, it still falls short of the performance achieved by the rule-based system Apertium in Aranese and Aragonese."}
{"Title": "Training and Fine-Tuning NMT Models for Low-Resource Languages Using Apertium-Based Synthetic Corpora", "Abstract": "In this paper, we present the two strategies employed for the WMT24 Shared Task on Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain. We participated in the language pairs of Spanish-to-Aragonese, Spanish-to-Aranese, and Spanish-to-Asturian, developing neural-based translation systems and moving away from rule-based approaches for these language directions. To create these models, two distinct strategies were employed. The first strategy involved a thorough cleaning process and curation of the limited provided data, followed by fine-tuning the multilingual NLLB-200-600M model (Constrained Submission). The other strategy involved training a transformer from scratch using a vast amount of synthetic data (Open Submission). Both approaches relied on generated synthetic data and resulted in high ChrF and BLEU scores. However, given the characteristics of the task, the strategy used in the Constrained Submission resulted in higher scores that surpassed the baselines across the three translation directions, whereas the strategy employed in the Open Submission yielded slightly lower scores than the highest baseline."}
{"Title": "Vicomtech@WMT 2024: Shared Task on Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain", "Abstract": "We describe Vicomtech{'}s participation in the WMT 2024 Shared Task on translation into low-resource languages of Spain. We addressed all three languages of the task, namely Aragonese, Aranese and Asturian, in both constrained and open settings. Our work mainly centred on exploiting different types of corpora via data filtering, selection and combination methods, along with synthetic data generated with translation models based on rules, neural sequence-to-sequence or large language models. We improved or matched the best baselines in all three language pairs and present complementary results on additional test sets."}
{"Title": "SJTU System Description for the WMT24 Low-Resource Languages of Spain Task", "Abstract": "We participate in the translation task on Spanish to Aragonese, Spanish to Aranese and Spanish to Asturian. Initially, we conduct preliminary experiments to assess the basic translation capabilities of various models and evaluate the impact of fine-tuning with different data types. We then choose to fine-tune the Qwen2-0.5B model using a forward synthesized pseudo-corpus from the Apertium translation system to replicate its fundamental performance. Building on this distillation model, we explore three optimization strategies across the three language directions: (1) Assembling the provided FLORES+ dev sets into a 5-shot format translation training dataset and performing few-shot fine-tuning to enhance model performance. (2) Utilizing the FLORES+ dev sets as training data and applying the Contrastive Preference Optimization (CPO) strategy for further refinement. (3) Retrieving the 20 most similar translation examples from the FLORES+ dev sets using the BM25 algorithm and performing 20-shot translations with the Claude 3.5-sonnet model. After evaluating these strategies, we select the best-performing approach for each language pair as our submission result."}
{"Title": "Multilingual Transfer and Domain Adaptation for Low-Resource Languages of Spain", "Abstract": "This article introduces the submission status of the Translation into Low-Resource Languages of Spain task at (WMT 2024) by Huawei Translation Service Center (HW-TSC). We participated in three translation tasks: spanish to aragonese (es2arg), spanish to aranese (es2arn), and spanish to asturian (es2ast). For these three translation tasks, we use training strategies such as multilingual transfer, regularized dropout, forward translation and back translation, labse denoising, transduction ensemble learning and other strategies to neural machine translation (NMT) model based on training deep transformer-big architecture. By using these enhancement strategies, our submission achieved a competitive result in the final evaluation."}
{"Title": "TRIBBLE - TRanslating IBerian languages Based on Limited E-resources", "Abstract": "In this short overview paper, we describe our system submission for the language pairs Spanish to Aragonese (spa-arg), Spanish to Aranese (spa-arn), and Spanish to Asturian (spa-ast). We train a unified model for all language pairs in the constrained scenario. In addition, we add two language control tokens for Aragonese and Aranese Occitan, as there is already one present for Asturian. We take the distilled NLLB-200 model with 600M parameters and extend special tokens with 2 tokens that denote target languages (arn{\\_}Latn, arg{\\_}Latn) because Asturian was already presented in NLLB-200 model. We adapt the model by training on a special regime of data augmentation with both monolingual and bilingual training data for the language pairs in this challenge."}
{"Title": "CloudSheep System for WMT24 Discourse-Level Literary Translation", "Abstract": "This paper describes the CloudSheep translation system for WMT24 Discourse-Level Literary Translation shared task. We participated in the Chinese-English direction on the unconstrained track. Our approach to the task used a pipeline of different tools in order to maximize the translation accuracy and flow of the text by combining the strengths of each tool. In particular, our focus was to translate names consistently and idioms correctly. To achieve consistent names throughout a text, a custom name dictionary was generated for each text, containing person and place names, along with their translations. A common honorific dictionary was applied for consistency with titles, especially in historical or cultivation novels. The names were found and translated with GPT 3.5-turbo. To achieve accurate and concise translations of idioms, which are often translated literally and verbosely, we integrated the CC-CEDICT library to provide official definitions. Then, we used GPT-4 to pick the best dictionary definition that fit the context and rephrase it to fit grammatically within a sentence. For the translation of non-name and non-idiom terms, we used Google Translate. We compared our approach{'}s performance with Google Translate as a baseline using BLEU, chrF, and COMET, as well as A/B testing."}
{"Title": "Final Submission of SJTULoveFiction to Literary Task", "Abstract": "This paper describes Shanghai Jiao Tong University (SJTU LoveFiction) Discourse-Level Literary Translation systems for the WMT24shared task. We participate in the literary translation task on Chinese \u00e2\u0086\u0092 English, Chinese \u00e2\u0086\u0092German and Chinese \u00e2\u0086\u0092 Russian with uncon-strained tack.Check our paper for detail."}
{"Title": "Context-aware and Style-related Incremental Decoding Framework for Discourse-Level Literary Translation", "Abstract": "This report outlines our approach for the WMT24 Discourse-Level Literary Translation Task, focusing on the Chinese-English language pair in the Constrained Track. Translating literary texts poses significant challenges due to the nuanced meanings, idiomatic expressions, and intricate narrative structures inherent in such works. To address these challenges, we leveraged the Chinese-Llama2 model, specifically enhanced for this task through a combination of Continual Pre-training (CPT) and Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT). Our methodology includes a novel Incremental Decoding framework, which ensures that each sentence is translated with consideration of its broader context, maintaining coherence and consistency throughout the text. This approach allows the model to capture long-range dependencies and stylistic elements, producing translations that faithfully preserve the original literary quality. Our experiments demonstrate significant improvements in both sentence-level and document-level BLEU scores, underscoring the effectiveness of our proposed framework in addressing the complexities of document-level literary translation."}
{"Title": "NovelTrans: System for WMT24 Discourse-Level Literary Translation", "Abstract": "This paper describes our submission system, NovelTrans, from NLP{\\mbox{$^2$}}CT and DeepTranx for the WMT24 Discourse-Level Literary Translation Task in Chinese-English, Chinese-German, and Chinese-Russian language pairs under unconstrained conditions. For our primary system, three translations are done by GPT4o using three different settings of additional information and a terminology table generated by online models. The final result is composed of sentences that have the highest xCOMET score compared with the corresponding sentences in other results. Our system achieved an xCOMET score of 79.14 which is higher than performing a direct chapter-level translation on our dataset."}
{"Title": "LinChance-NTU for Unconstrained WMT2024 Literary Translation", "Abstract": "The rapid growth of deep learning has spurred significant advancements across industries, par- ticularly in machine translation through large language models (LLMs). However, translat- ing literary still presents challenges, including cross-cultural nuances, complex language struc- tures, metaphorical expressions, and cultural differences. To address these issues, this study utilizes the Llama and Phi models using both LoRA and full-parameter techniques, along-side a prompt-based translation system. Full-parameter tuning of the Llama-3-Chinese-8B-Instruct model was unsuccessful due to mem-ory constraints. In terms of the WMT task, the fully fine-tuned Phi 3 model was selected for submission due to its more natural and flu-ent translations. Nonetheless, results showed that LoRA and the prompt-based system sig- nificantly improved the Llama3 model{'}s perfor- mance, surpassing other models in BLEU and ROUGE evaluations."}
{"Title": "Improving Context Usage for Translating Bilingual Customer Support Chat with Large Language Models", "Abstract": "This paper describes Unbabel+IT{'}s submission to the Chat Shared Task held at the Workshop of Machine Translation 2024. The task focuses on translating customer support chats between agents and customers communicating in different languages. We present two strategies for adapting state-of-the-art language models to better utilize contextual information when translating such conversations. Our training strategy involves finetuning the model on chat datasets with context-augmented instructions, resulting in a specialized model, TOWERCHAT. For inference, we propose a novel quality-aware decoding approach that leverages a context-aware metric, CONTEXTCOMET, to select the optimal translation from a pool of candidates. We evaluate our proposed approach on the official shared task datasets for ten language pairs, showing that our submission consistently outperforms baselines on all and competing systems on 8 out of 10 language pairs across multiple automated metrics. Remarkably, TOWERCHAT outperforms our contrastive submission based on the much larger TOWER-V2-70B model while being 10{\\mbox{$\\times$}} smaller. According to human evaluation, our system outperforms all other systems and baselines across all language pairs. These results underscore the importance of context-aware training and inference in handling complex bilingual dialogues."}
{"Title": "Optimising LLM-Driven Machine Translation with Context-Aware Sliding Windows", "Abstract": "This paper describes SheffieldGATE{'}s submission to WMT 2024 Chat Shared Translation Task. We participate in three language pairs: English-German, English-Dutch, and English-Portuguese (Brazil). In this work, we introduce a context-aware sliding window decoding method to track dependencies between chat messages. We fine-tune a large pre-trained language model based on the training data provided by the shared task Our experiments (i) compare the model performance between multilingual and bilingual fine-tuning and (ii) assess the impact of different window sizes. Our experimental results demonstrate that utilising contextual information yields superior performance in document-level translation compared to translating documents as isolated text segments, and that models fine-tuned with multilingual data perform better than those fine-tuned with bilingual data."}
{"Title": "Context-Aware LLM Translation System Using Conversation Summarization and Dialogue History", "Abstract": "Translating conversational text, particularly in customer support contexts, presents unique challenges due to its informal and unstructured nature. We propose a context-aware LLM translation system that leverages conversation summarization and dialogue history to enhance translation quality for the English-Korean language pair. Our approach incorporates the two most recent dialogues as raw data and a summary of earlier conversations to manage context length effectively. We demonstrate that this method significantly improves translation accuracy, maintaining coherence and consistency across conversations. This system offers a practical solution for customer support translation tasks, addressing the complexities of conversational text."}
{"Title": "Enhancing Translation Quality: A Comparative Study of Fine-Tuning and Prompt Engineering in Dialog-Oriented Machine Translation Systems. Insights from the MULTITAN-GML Team", "Abstract": "For this shared task, we have used several machine translation engines to produce translations (en \u00e2\u0087\u0094 fr) by fine-tuning a dialog-oriented NMT engine and having NMT baseline translations post-edited with prompt engineering. Our objectives are to test the effectiveness of a fine-tuning strategy with help of a robust NMT model, to draw out a from-translation-to-post-editing pipeline, and to evaluate the strong and weak points of NMT systems."}
{"Title": "The SETU-ADAPT Submissions to WMT 2024 Chat Translation Tasks", "Abstract": "This paper presents the SETU-ADAPT submissions to the WMT24 Chat Translation Task. Large language models (LLM) currently provides the state-of-the-art solutions in many natural language processing (NLP) problems including machine translation (MT). For the WMT24 Chat Translation Task we leveraged LLMs for their MT capabilities. In order to adapt the LLMs for a specific domain of interest, we explored different fine-tuning and prompting strategies. We also employed efficient data retrieval methods to curate the data used for fine-tuning. We carried out experiments for two language pairs: German-to-English and French-to-English. Our MT models were evaluated using three metrics: BLEU, chrF and COMET. In this paper we describes our experiments including training setups, results and findings."}
{"Title": "Exploring the Traditional NMT Model and Large Language Model for Chat Translation", "Abstract": "This paper describes the submissions of Huawei Translation Services Center(HW-TSC) to WMT24 chat translation shared task on English\u00e2\u0086\u0094Germany (en-de) bidirection. The experiments involved fine-tuning models using chat data and exploring various strategies, including Minimum Bayesian Risk (MBR) decoding and self-training. The results show significant performance improvements in certain directions, with the MBR self-training method achieving the best results. The Large Language Model also discusses the challenges and potential avenues for further research in the field of chat translation."}
{"Title": "Graph Representations for Machine Translation in Dialogue Settings", "Abstract": "In this paper, we present our approach to the WMT24 - Chat Task, addressing the challenge of translating chat conversations.Chat conversations are characterised by their informal, ungrammatical nature and strong reliance on context posing significant challenges for machine translation systems. To address these challenges, we augment large language models with explicit memory mechanisms designed to enhance coherence and consistency across dialogues. Specifically, we employ graph representations to capture and utilise dialogue context, leveraging concept connectivity as a compressed memory. Our approach ranked second place for Dutch and French, and third place for Portuguese and German, based on COMET-22 scores and human evaluation."}
{"Title": "Reducing Redundancy in Japanese-to-English Translation: A Multi-Pipeline Approach for Translating Repeated Elements in Japanese", "Abstract": "This paper presents a multi-pipeline Japanese-to-English machine translation (MT) system designed to address the challenge of translating repeated elements from Japanese into fluent and lexically diverse English. The system is developed as part of the Non-Repetitive Translation Task at WMT24, which focuses on minimizing redundancy while maintaining high translation quality. Our approach utilizes MeCab, the de facto NLP tool for Japanese, for the identification of repeated elements, and Claude Sonnet 3.5, a large language model (LLM), for translation and proofreading. The system effectively accomplishes the shared task by identifying and translating in a diversified manner 89.79{\\%} of the 470 repeated instances in the testing dataset, and achieving an average translation quality score of 4.60 out of 5, significantly surpassing the baseline score of 3.88. Analysis also revealed the challenges encountered, particularly in identifying standalone noun-suffix elements and occasional cases of consistent translations or mistranslations."}
{"Title": "SYSTRAN @ WMT24 Non-Repetitive Translation Task", "Abstract": "Many contemporary NLP systems rely on neural decoders for text generation, which demonstrate an impressive ability to generate text approaching human fluency levels. However, in the case of neural machine translation networks, they often grapple with the production of repetitive content, also known as repetitive diction or word repetition, an aspect they weren{'}t explicitly trained to address. While not inherently negative, this repetition can make writing seem monotonous or awkward if not used intentionally for emphasis or stylistic purposes. This paper presents our submission to the WMT 2024 Non-Repetitive Translation Task, for which we adopt a repetition penalty method applied at learning inspired by the principles of label smoothing. No additional work is needed at inference time. We modify the ground-truth distribution to steer the model towards discouraging repetitions. Experiments show the ability of the proposed methods in reducing repetitions within neural machine translation engines, without compromising efficiency or translation quality."}
{"Title": "Mitigating Metric Bias in Minimum Bayes Risk Decoding", "Abstract": "While Minimum Bayes Risk (MBR) decoding using metrics such as COMET or MetricX has outperformed traditional decoding methods such as greedy or beam search, it introduces a challenge we refer to as metric bias. As MBR decoding aims to produce translations that score highly according to a specific utility metric, this very process makes it impossible to use the same metric for both decoding and evaluation, as any improvement might simply be due to reward hacking rather than reflecting real quality improvements. In this work we demonstrate that compared to human ratings, neural metrics not only overestimate the quality of MBR decoding when the same metric is used as the utility metric, but they also overestimate the quality of MBR/QE decoding with other neural utility metrics as well. We also show that the metric bias issue can be mitigated by using an ensemble of utility metrics during MBR decoding: human evaluations show that MBR decoding using an ensemble of utility metrics outperforms a single utility metric."}
{"Title": "Beyond Human-Only: Evaluating Human-Machine Collaboration for Collecting High-Quality Translation Data", "Abstract": "Collecting high-quality translations is crucial for the development and evaluation of machine translation systems. However, traditional human-only approaches are costly and slow. This study presents a comprehensive investigation of 11 approaches for acquiring translation data, including human-only, machine-only, and hybrid approaches. Our findings demonstrate that human-machine collaboration can match or even exceed the quality of human-only translations, while being more cost-efficient. Error analysis reveals the complementary strengths between human and machine contributions, highlighting the effectiveness of collaborative methods. Cost analysis further demonstrates the economic benefits of human-machine collaboration methods, with some approaches achieving top-tier quality at around 60{\\%} of the cost of traditional methods. We release a publicly available dataset containing nearly 18,000 segments of varying translation quality with corresponding human ratings to facilitate future research."}
{"Title": "How Effective Are State Space Models for Machine Translation?", "Abstract": "Transformers are the current architecture of choice for NLP, but their attention layers do not scale well to long contexts. Recent works propose to replace attention with linear recurrent layers - this is the case for state space models, which enjoy efficient training and inference. However, it remains unclear whether these models are competitive with transformers in machine translation (MT). In this paper, we provide a rigorous and comprehensive experimental comparison between transformers and linear recurrent models for MT. Concretely, we experiment with RetNet, Mamba, and hybrid versions of Mamba which incorporate attention mechanisms. Our findings demonstrate that Mamba is highly competitive with transformers on sentence and paragraph-level datasets, where in the latter both models benefit from shifting the training distribution towards longer sequences. Further analysis show that integrating attention into Mamba improves translation quality, robustness to sequence length extrapolation, and the ability to recall named entities."}
{"Title": "Evaluation and Large-scale Training for Contextual Machine Translation", "Abstract": "Despite the fact that context is known to be vital for resolving a range of translation ambiguities, most traditional machine translation systems continue to be trained and to operate at the sentence level. A common explanation is the lack of document-level annotations for existing training data. This work investigates whether having such annotations would be helpful for training traditional MT systems at scale. We build large-scale, state-of-the-art contextual MT systems into German, French, and Russian, fixing the datasets while comparing the effect of sourcing contextual training samples from both parallel and back-translated data. We then evaluate these contextual models across a range of contextual test sets from the literature, where we find that (a) document annotations from both mined parallel and back-translated monolingual data are helpful, but that the best contextual MT systems do not draw contextual samples from the parallel data. We also make two points related to evaluation: (b) contrastive score-based metrics on challenge sets are not discriminative; instead, models must be tested directly on their ability to generate correct outputs, and (c) standard corpus-level metrics such as COMET work best in settings that are dense in contextual phenomena."}
{"Title": "A Multi-task Learning Framework for Evaluating Machine Translation of Emotion-loaded User-generated Content", "Abstract": "Machine translation (MT) of user-generated content (UGC) poses unique challenges, including handling slang, emotion, and literary devices like irony and sarcasm. Evaluating the quality of these translations is challenging as current metrics do not focus on these ubiquitous features of UGC. To address this issue, we utilize an existing emotion-related dataset that includes emotion labels and human-annotated translation errors based on Multi-dimensional Quality Metrics. We extend it with sentence-level evaluation scores and word-level labels, leading to a dataset suitable for sentence- and word-level translation evaluation and emotion classification, in a multi-task setting. We propose a new architecture to perform these tasks concurrently, with a novel combined loss function, which integrates different loss heuristics, like the Nash and Aligned losses. Our evaluation compares existing fine-tuning and multi-task learning approaches, assessing generalization with ablative experiments over multiple datasets. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance and we present a comprehensive analysis for MT evaluation of UGC."}
{"Title": "On Instruction-Finetuning Neural Machine Translation Models", "Abstract": "In this work, we introduce instruction finetuning for Neural Machine Translation (NMT) models, which distills instruction following capabilities from Large Language Models (LLMs) into orders-of-magnitude smaller NMT models. Our instruction-finetuning recipe for NMT models enables customization of translations for a limited but disparate set of translation-specific tasks.We show that NMT models are capable of following multiple instructions simultaneously and demonstrate capabilities of zero-shot composition of instructions.We also show that through instruction finetuning, traditionally disparate tasks such as formality-controlled machine translation, multi-domain adaptation as well as multi-modal translations can be tackled jointly by a single instruction finetuned NMT model, at a performance level comparable to LLMs such as GPT-3.5-Turbo.To the best of our knowledge, our work is among the first to demonstrate the instruction-following capabilities of traditional NMT models, which allows for faster, cheaper and more efficient serving of customized translations."}
{"Title": "Benchmarking Visually-Situated Translation of Text in Natural Images", "Abstract": "We introduce a benchmark, Vistra, for visually-situated translation of English text in natural images to four target languages. We describe the dataset construction and composition. We benchmark open-source and commercial OCR and MT models on Vistra, and present both quantitative results and a taxonomy of common OCR error classes with their effect on downstream MT. Finally, we assess direct image-to-text translation with a multimodal LLM, and show that it is able in some cases but not yet consistently to disambiguate possible translations with visual context. We show that this is an unsolved and challenging task even for strong commercial models. We hope that the creation and release of this benchmark which is the first of its kind for these language pairs will encourage further research in this direction."}
{"Title": "Analysing Translation Artifacts: A Comparative Study of LLMs, NMTs, and Human Translations", "Abstract": "Translated texts exhibit a range of characteristics that make them appear distinct from texts originally written in the same target language. With the rise of Large Language Models (LLMs), which are designed for a wide range of language generation and understanding tasks, there has been significant interest in their application to Machine Translation. While several studies have focused on improving translation quality through fine-tuning or few-shot prompting techniques, there has been limited exploration of how LLM-generated translations qualitatively differ from those produced by Neural Machine Translation (NMT) models, and human translations. Our study employs explainability methods such as Leave-One-Out (LOO) and Integrated Gradients (IG) to analyze the lexical features distinguishing human translations from those produced by LLMs and NMT systems. Specifically, we apply a two-stage approach: first, classifying texts based on their origin {--} whether they are original or translations {--} and second, extracting significant lexical features (highly attributed input words) using post-hoc interpretability methods. Our analysis shows that different methods of feature extraction vary in their effectiveness, with LOO being generally better at pinpointing critical input words and IG capturing a broader range of important words. Finally, our results show that while LLMs and NMT systems can produce translations of a good quality, they still differ from texts originally written by native speakers. Specifically, we find that while some LLMs often align closely with human translations, traditional NMT systems exhibit distinct characteristics, particularly in their use of certain linguistic features."}
{"Title": "How Grammatical Features Impact Machine Translation: A New Test Suite for Chinese-English MT Evaluation", "Abstract": "Machine translation (MT) evaluation has evolved toward a trend of fine-grained granularity, enabling a more precise diagnosis of hidden flaws and weaknesses of MT systems from various perspectives. This paper examines how MT systems are potentially affected by certain grammatical features, offering insights into the challenges these features pose and suggesting possible directions for improvement. We develop a new test suite by extracting 7,848 sentences from a multi-domain Chinese-English parallel corpus. All the Chinese text was further annotated with 43 grammatical features using a semi-automatic method. This test suite was subsequently used to evaluate eight state-of-the-art MT systems according to six different automatic evaluation metrics. The results reveal intriguing patterns of MT performance associated with different domains and various grammatical features, highlighting the test suite{'}s effectiveness. The test suite was made publicly available and it will serve as an important benchmark for evaluating and diagnosing Chinese-English MT systems."}
{"Title": "Improving Statistical Significance in Human Evaluation of Automatic Metrics via Soft Pairwise Accuracy", "Abstract": "Selecting an automatic metric that best emulates human annotators is often non-trivial, because there is no clear definition of {``}best emulates.{''} A meta-metric is required to compare the human judgments to the automatic metric scores, and metric rankings depend on the choice of meta-metric. We propose Soft Pairwise Accuracy (SPA), a new meta-metric that builds on Pairwise Accuracy (PA) but incorporates the statistical significance of both the human judgments and the metric scores. We show that SPA is more stable than PA with respect to changes in the number of systems/segments used for evaluation. We also show that PA can only assign a small set of distinct output values to metrics, and this results in many metrics being artificially assigned the exact same PA score. We demonstrate that SPA fixes this issue. Finally, we show that SPA is more discriminative than PA, producing more statistically significant comparisons between metrics. SPA was selected as the official system-level metric for the 2024 WMT Metrics Shared Task."}
{"Title": "Speech Is More than Words: Do Speech-to-Text Translation Systems Leverage Prosody?", "Abstract": "The prosody of a spoken utterance, including features like stress, intonation and rhythm, can significantly affect the underlying semantics, and as a consequence can also affect its textual translation. Nevertheless, prosody is rarely studied within the context of speech-to-text translation (S2TT) systems. In particular, end-to-end (E2E) systems have been proposed as well-suited for prosody-aware translation because they have direct access to the speech signal when making translation decisions, but the understanding of whether this is successful in practice is still limited. A main challenge is the difficulty of evaluating prosody awareness in translation. To address this challenge, we introduce an evaluation methodology and a focused benchmark (named ContraProSt) aimed at capturing a wide range of prosodic phenomena. Our methodology uses large language models and controllable text-to-speech (TTS) to generate contrastive examples. Through experiments in translating English speech into German, Spanish, and Japanese, we find that (a) S2TT models possess some internal representation of prosody, but the prosody signal is often not strong enough to affect the translations, (b) E2E systems outperform cascades of speech recognition and text translation systems, confirming their theoretical advantage in this regard, and (c) certain cascaded systems also capture prosodic information in the translation, but only to a lesser extent that depends on the particulars of the transcript{'}s surface form."}
{"Title": "Cultural Adaptation of Menus: A Fine-Grained Approach", "Abstract": "Machine Translation of Culture-Specific Items (CSIs) poses significant challenges. Recent work on CSI translation has shown some success using Large Language Models (LLMs) to adapt to different languages and cultures; however, a deeper analysis is needed to examine the benefits and pitfalls of each method. In this paper, we introduce the ChineseMenuCSI dataset, the largest for Chinese-English menu corpora, annotated with CSI vs Non-CSI labels and a fine-grained test set. We define three levels of CSI figurativeness for a more nuanced analysis and develop a novel methodology for automatic CSI identification, which outperforms GPT-based prompts in most categories. Importantly, we are the first to integrate human translation theories into LLM-driven translation processes, significantly improving translation accuracy, with COMET scores increasing by up to 7 points. The code and dataset are available at https://github.com/Henry8772/ChineseMenuCSI."}
{"Title": "Pitfalls and Outlooks in Using COMET", "Abstract": "The COMET metric has blazed a trail in the machine translation community, given its strong correlation with human judgements of translation quality.Its success stems from being a modified pre-trained multilingual model finetuned for quality assessment.However, it being a machine learning model also gives rise to a new set of pitfalls that may not be widely known. We investigate these unexpected behaviours from three aspects:1) technical: obsolete software versions and compute precision; 2) data: empty content, language mismatch, and translationese at test time as well as distribution and domain biases in training; 3) usage and reporting: multi-reference support and model referencing in the literature. All of these problems imply that COMET scores are not comparable between papers or even technical setups and we put forward our perspective on fixing each issue.Furthermore, we release the sacreCOMET package that can generate a signature for the software and model configuration as well as an appropriate citation.The goal of this work is to help the community make more sound use of the COMET metric."}
{"Title": "Post-edits Are Preferences Too", "Abstract": "Preference Optimization (PO) techniques are currently one of the state of the art techniques for fine-tuning large language models (LLMs) on pairwise preference feedback from human annotators. However, in machine translation, this sort of feedback can be difficult to solicit. Additionally, Kreuzer et al. (2018) have shown that, for machine translation, pairwise preferences are less reliable than other forms of human feedback, such as 5-point ratings.We examine post-edits to see if they can be a source of reliable human preferences by construction. In PO, a human annotator is shown sequences {\\$}s{\\_}1{\\$} and {\\$}s{\\_}2{\\$} and asked for a preference judgment, while for post-editing, editors create {\\$}s{\\_}1{\\$} and know that it should be better than {\\$}s{\\_}2{\\$}. We attempt to use these implicit preferences for PO and show that it helps the model move towards post-edit like hypotheses and away from machine translation-like hypotheses. Furthermore, we show that best results are obtained by pre-training the model with supervised fine-tuning (SFT) on post-edits in order to promote post-edit like hypotheses to the top output ranks."}
{"Title": "Translating Step-by-Step: Decomposing the Translation Process for Improved Translation Quality of Long-Form Texts", "Abstract": "In this paper we present a step-by-step approach to long-form text translation, drawing on established processes in translation studies. Instead of viewing machine translation as a single, monolithic task, we propose a framework that engages language models in a multi-turn interaction, encompassing pre-translation research, drafting, refining, and proofreading, resulting in progressively improved translations.Extensive automatic evaluations using Gemini 1.5 Pro across ten language pairs show that translating step-by-step yields large translation quality improvements over conventional zero-shot prompting approaches and earlier human-like baseline strategies, resulting in state-of-the-art results on WMT 2024."}
{"Title": "Scaling Laws of Decoder-Only Models on the Multilingual Machine Translation Task", "Abstract": "Recent studies have showcased remarkable capabilities of decoder-only models in many NLP tasks, including translation. Yet, the machine translation field has been largely dominated by encoder-decoder models based on the Transformer architecture. As a consequence, scaling laws of encoder-decoder models for neural machine translation have already been well studied, but decoder-only models have received less attention.This work explores the scaling laws of decoder-only models on the multilingual and multidomain translation task. We trained a collection of six decoder-only models, ranging from 70M to 7B parameters, on a sentence-level, multilingual (8 languages) and multidomain (9 domains) dataset. We conducted a series of experiments showing that the loss of decoder-only models can be estimated using a scaling law similar to the one discovered for large language models, but we also show that this scaling law has difficulties to generalize to too large models or to a different data distribution. We also study different scaling methods and show that scaling the depth and the width of a model lead to similar test loss improvements, but with different impact on the model{'}s efficiency."}
{"Title": "Shortcomings of LLMs for Low-Resource Translation: Retrieval and Understanding Are Both the Problem", "Abstract": "This work investigates the in-context learning abilities of pretrained large language models (LLMs) when instructed to translate text from a low-resource language into a high-resource language as part of an automated machine translation pipeline. We conduct a set of experiments translating Southern Quechua to Spanish and examine the informativity of various types of information retrieved from a constrained database of digitized pedagogical materials (dictionaries and grammar lessons) and parallel corpora. Using both automatic and human evaluation of model output, we conduct ablation studies that manipulate (1) context type (morpheme translations, grammar descriptions, and corpus examples), (2) retrieval methods (automated vs. manual), and (3) model type. Our results suggest that even relatively small LLMs are capable of utilizing prompt context for zero-shot low-resource translation when provided a minimally sufficient amount of relevant linguistic information. However, the variable effects of prompt type, retrieval method, model type, and language community-specific factors highlight the limitations of using even the best LLMs as translation systems for the majority of the world{'}s 7,000+ languages and their speakers."}
{"Title": "Introducing the NewsPaLM MBR and QE Dataset: LLM-Generated High-Quality Parallel Data Outperforms Traditional Web-Crawled Data", "Abstract": "Recent research in neural machine translation (NMT) has shown that training on high-quality machine-generated data can outperform training on human-generated data. This work accompanies the first-ever release of a LLM-generated, MBR-decoded and QE-reranked dataset with both sentence-level and multi-sentence examples. We perform extensive experiments to demonstrate the quality of our dataset in terms of its downstream impact on NMT model performance. We find that training from scratch on our (machine-generated) dataset outperforms training on the (web-crawled) WMT{'}23 training dataset (which is 300 times larger), and also outperforms training on the top-quality subset of the WMT{'}23 training dataset. We also find that performing self-distillation by finetuning the LLM which generated this dataset outperforms the LLM{'}s strong few-shot baseline. These findings corroborate the quality of our dataset, and demonstrate the value of high-quality machine-generated data in improving performance of NMT models."}
{"Title": "Is Preference Alignment Always the Best Option to Enhance LLM-Based Translation? An Empirical Analysis", "Abstract": "Neural metrics for machine translation (MT) evaluation have become increasingly prominent due to their superior correlation with human judgments compared to traditional lexical metrics. Researchers have therefore utilized neural metrics through quality-informed decoding strategies, achieving better results than likelihood-based methods. With the rise of Large Language Models (LLMs), preference-based alignment techniques have gained attention for their potential to enhance translation quality by optimizing model weights directly on preferences induced by quality estimators. This study focuses on Contrastive Preference Optimization (CPO) and conducts extensive experiments to evaluate the impact of preference-based alignment on translation quality. Our findings indicate that while CPO consistently outperforms Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) on high-quality data with regard to the alignment metric, it may lead to instability across downstream evaluation metrics, particularly between neural and lexical ones. Additionally, we demonstrate that relying solely on the base model for generating candidate translations achieves performance comparable to using multiple external systems, while ensuring better consistency across downstream metrics."}
{"Title": "Quality or Quantity? On Data Scale and Diversity in Adapting Large Language Models for Low-Resource Translation", "Abstract": "Despite the recent popularity of Large Language Models (LLMs) in Machine Translation (MT), their performance in low-resource languages (LRLs) still lags significantly behind Neural Machine Translation (NMT) models. In this work, we explore what it would take to adapt LLMs for the low-resource setting. Particularly, we re-examine the role of two factors: a) the importance and application of parallel data, and b) diversity in Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT). Recently, parallel data has seen reduced use in adapting LLMs for MT, while data diversity has been embraced to promote transfer across languages and tasks. However, for low-resource LLM-MT, we show that the opposite is true for both considerations: a) \\textit{parallel data} is critical during both pre-training and SFT; b) diversity tends to cause \\textit{interference} instead of transfer. Our experiments with three LLMs across two low-resourced language groups{---}Indigenous American and North-East Indian{---}reveal consistent trends, underscoring the generalizability of our findings. We believe these insights will be valuable for scaling to massively multilingual LLM-MT models that can effectively serve LRLs."}
{"Title": "Efficient Technical Term Translation: A Knowledge Distillation Approach for Parenthetical Terminology Translation", "Abstract": "This paper addresses the challenge of accurately translating technical terms, which are crucial for clear communication in specialized fields. We introduce the Parenthetical Terminology Translation (PTT) task, designed to mitigate potential inaccuracies by displaying the original term in parentheses alongside its translation. To implement this approach, we generated a representative PTT dataset using a collaborative approach with large language models and applied knowledge distillation to fine-tune traditional Neural Machine Translation (NMT) models and small-sized Large Language Models (sLMs). Additionally, we developed a novel evaluation metric to assess both overall translation accuracy and the correct parenthetical presentation of terms. Our findings indicate that sLMs did not consistently outperform NMT models, with fine-tuning proving more effective than few-shot prompting, particularly in models with continued pre-training in the target language. These insights contribute to the advancement of more reliable terminology translation methodologies."}
{"Title": "Assessing the Role of Imagery in Multimodal Machine Translation", "Abstract": "In Multimodal Machine Translation (MMT), the use of visual data has shown only marginal improvements compared to text-only models. Previously, the CoMMuTE dataset and associated metric were proposed to score models on tasks where the imagery is necessary to disambiguate between two possible translations for each ambiguous source sentence. In this work, we introduce new metrics within the CoMMuTE domain to provide deeper insights into image-aware translation models. Our proposed metrics differ from the previous CoMMuTE scoring method by 1) assessing the impact of multiple images on individual translations and 2) evaluating a model{'}s ability to jointly select each translation for each image context. Our results challenge the conventional views of poor visual comprehension capabilities of MMT models and show that models can indeed meaningfully interpret visual information, though they may not leverage it sufficiently in the final decision."}
{"Title": "Error Span Annotation: A Balanced Approach for Human Evaluation of Machine Translation", "Abstract": "High-quality Machine Translation (MT) evaluation relies heavily on human judgments.Comprehensive error classification methods, such as Multidimensional Quality Metrics (MQM), are expensive as they are time-consuming and can only be done by experts, whose availability may be limited especially for low-resource languages.On the other hand, just assigning overall scores, like Direct Assessment (DA), is simpler and faster and can be done by translators of any level, but is less reliable.In this paper, we introduce Error Span Annotation (ESA), a human evaluation protocol which combines the continuous rating of DA with the high-level error severity span marking of MQM.We validate ESA by comparing it to MQM and DA for 12 MT systems and one human reference translation (English to German) from WMT23. The results show that ESA offers faster and cheaper annotations than MQM at the same quality level, without the requirement of expensive MQM experts."}
{"Title": "Neural Methods for Aligning Large-Scale Parallel Corpora from the Web for South and East Asian Languages", "Abstract": "We introduce neural methods and a toxicity filtering step to the hierarchical web mining approach of Paracrawl (Ba{\\~n}{\\'o}n et al., 2020), showing large improvements. We apply these methods to web-scale parallel corpus mining for 9 South and East Asian national languages, creating training resources for machine translation that yield better translation quality for most of these languages than existing publicly available datasets in OPUS. Our methods also generally lead to better results than the global mining approach of Schwenk et al. (2021)."}
{"Title": "Plug, Play, and Fuse: Zero-Shot Joint Decoding via Word-Level Re-ranking across Diverse Vocabularies", "Abstract": "Recent advancements in NLP have resulted in models with specialized strengths, such as processing multimodal inputs or excelling in specific domains. However, real-world tasks, like multimodal translation, often require a combination of these strengths, such as handling both translation and image processing. While individual translation and vision models are powerful, they typically lack the ability to perform both tasks in a single system. Combining these models poses challenges, particularly due to differences in their vocabularies, which limit the effectiveness of traditional ensemble methods to post-generation techniques like N-best list re-ranking. In this work, we propose a novel zero-shot ensembling strategy that allows for the integration of different models during the decoding phase without the need for additional training. Our approach re-ranks beams during decoding by combining scores at the word level, using heuristics to predict when a word is completed. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this method in machine translation scenarios, showing that it enables the generation of translations that are both speech- and image-aware while also improving overall translation quality."}
{"Title": "Narration as Functions: from Events to Narratives", "Abstract": "Identifying events from text has a long past in narrative analysis, but a short history in Natural Language Processing (NLP). In this position paper, a question is asked: given the telling of a sequence of real-world events by a news narrator, what do NLP event extraction models capture, and what do they miss? Insights from critical discourse analysis (CDA) and from a series of movements in literary criticism motivate us to model the narrated logic in news narratives.As a result, a computational framework is proposed to model the function of news narration, which shapes the narrated world, consumed by news narratees. As a simplification, we represent the causal logic between events depicted in the narrated world."}
{"Title": "How to tame your plotline: A framework for goal-driven interactive fairy tale generation", "Abstract": "Automatic storytelling is a difficult NLP task that poses a challenge even for state-of-the-art large language models. This paper proposes a pipeline for interactive fairy tale generation in a mixed-initiative setting. Our approach introduces a story goal as a stopping condition, imposes minimal structure on the narrative in the form of a simple emotional arc, and controls the transition between the stages of the story via system prompt engineering. The resulting framework reconciles creating a structured and complete short-form narrative with retaining player agency and allowing users to influence the storyline through their input. We evaluate our approach with several proprietary and open-source language models and examine its transferability to different languages, specifically English and Russian."}
{"Title": "Understanding Transmedia Storytelling: Reception and Narrative Comprehension in Bill Willingham's Fables Franchise", "Abstract": "This study explores the reception and understanding of the transmedia ensemble surrounding Bill Willingham{'}s Fables (2002-2015), a comic series reimagining fairytale characters in a modern setting. Fables expands its narrative across multiple media, including spin-off comics, a novel, and the video game The Wolf Among Us. This research investigates key questions: Can we identify a distinct group of transmedia consumers? What elements of the narrative sustain interest across media? A survey of 58 participants reveals that while most enter the franchise through the comic series, a significant number are introduced via the video game. The findings indicate that Fables fans are highly engaged transmedia consumers, with a majority exploring several parts of the franchise wanting to pursue narrative exploration. This study offers insights into how transmedia narratives are consumed, emphasizing the role of familiar story elements in encouraging cross-media engagement."}
{"Title": "Using Large Language Models for Understanding Narrative Discourse", "Abstract": "In this study, we explore the application of large language models (LLMs) to analyze narrative discourse within the framework established by the field of narratology. We develop a set of elementary narrative features derived from prior theoretical work that focus on core dimensions of narrative, including time, setting, and perspective. Through experiments with GPT-4 and fine-tuned open-source models like Llama3, we demonstrate the models{'} ability to annotate narrative passages with reasonable levels of agreement with human annotators. Leveraging a dataset of human-annotated passages spanning 18 distinct narrative and non-narrative genres, our work provides empirical support for the deictic theory of narrative communication. This theory posits that a fundamental function of storytelling is the focalization of attention on distant human experiences to facilitate social coordination. We conclude with a discussion of the possibilities for LLM-driven narrative discourse understanding."}
{"Title": "Is It Safe to Tell Your Story? Towards Achieving Privacy for Sensitive Narratives", "Abstract": "Evolving tools for narrative analysis present an opportunity to identify common structure in stories that are socially important to tell, such as stories of survival from domestic abuse. A greater structural understanding of such stories could lead to stronger protections against de-anonymization, as well as future tools to help survivors navigate the complex trade-offs inherent in trying to tell their stories safely. In this work we explore narrative patterns within a small set of domestic violence stories, identifying many similarities. We then propose a method to assess the safety of sharing a story based on a distance feature vector."}
{"Title": "Annotating Mystery Novels: Guidelines and Adaptations", "Abstract": "To understand how stories are structured, we would like to be able to analyze the architecture of narratives. This article reviews and compares existing annotation guidelines for scene and narrative level annotation. We propose new guidelines, based on existing ones, and show how these can be effectively extended from general-purpose to specialized contexts, such as mystery novels which feature unique narrative elements like red herrings and plot twists. This provides a controlled environment for examining genre-specific event structuring. Additionally, we present a newly annotated genre-specific dataset of mystery novels, offering valuable resources for training and evaluating models in narrative understanding. This study aims to enhance annotation practices and advance the development of computational models for narrative analysis."}
{"Title": "Causal Micro-Narratives", "Abstract": "We present a novel approach to classify causal micro-narratives from text. These narratives are sentence-level explanations of the cause(s) and/or effect(s) of a target subject. The approach requires only a subject-specific ontology of causes and effects, and we demonstrate it with an application to inflation narratives. Using a human-annotated dataset spanning historical and contemporary US news articles for training, we evaluate several large language models (LLMs) on this multi-label classification task. The best-performing model{---}a fine-tuned Llama 3.1 8B{---}achieves F1 scores of 0.87 on narrative detection and 0.71 on narrative classification. Comprehensive error analysis reveals challenges arising from linguistic ambiguity and highlights how model errors often mirror human annotator disagreements. This research establishes a framework for extracting causal micro-narratives from real-world data, with wide-ranging applications to social science research."}
{"Title": "Media Framing through the Lens of Event-Centric Narratives", "Abstract": "From a communications perspective, a frame defines the packaging of the language used in such a way as to encourage certain interpretations and to discourage others. For example, a news article can frame immigration as either a boost or a drain on the economy, and thus communicate very different interpretations of the same phenomenon. In this work, we argue that to explain framing devices we have to look at the way narratives are constructed. As a first step in this direction, we propose a framework that extracts events and their relations to other events, and groups them into high-level narratives that help explain frames in news articles. We show that our framework can be used to analyze framing in U.S. news for two different domains: immigration and gun control."}
{"Title": "BERT-based Annotation of Oral Texts Elicited via Multilingual Assessment Instrument for Narratives", "Abstract": "We investigate how NLP can help annotate the structure and complexity of oral narrative texts elicited via the Multilingual Assessment Instrument for Narratives (MAIN). MAIN is a theory-based tool designed to evaluate the narrative abilities of children who are learning one or more languages from birth or early in their development. It provides a standardized way to measure how well children can comprehend and produce stories across different languages and referential norms for children between 3 and 12 years old. MAIN has been adapted to over ninety languages and is used in over 65 countries. The MAIN analysis focuses on story structure and story complexity which are typically evaluated manually based on scoring sheets. We here investigate the automation of this process using BERT-based classification which already yields promising results."}
